---
title: 'Another trip to Charleston for a second treatment'
description: 'It was three weeks later and time to make the trip to Charleston for the second chemotherapy appointment'
pubDate: 'Sep 22 2023'
heroImage: '/long-road.jpg'
---

### The Second Treatment

Robert experienced a whole lot of change after his first appointment, but it was already three weeks later and time to make the trip to Charleston for the second chemotherapy appointment. The original appointment was scheduled for Thursday, August 24, 2023, but after some scheduling confusion the appointment was set for Friday, August 25, 2023. Robert was upset with the change at first because all the plans he made was for the 24th not the 25th. Robert felt bad enough asking his girlfriend to take off work to be with him and now he had to tell her the date was changed. Robert’s mother also said she wanted to go with him for this treatment as well, so he had to tell her the date was changed too. During the scheduling issue Robert expressed his dissatisfaction with the appointment change since his doctor asked him last visit what day he would like to receive treatments and Robert told her Thursdays. Then two weeks later the appointment was moved. While Robert was going back and forth with his doctors, one of the doctors mentioned transferring Robert to Augusta, GA for his treatment. Robert definitely did not want to transfer facilities or get new doctors. Robert likes his entire care team and each of them have been really good to him putting his care and needs first. Robert received a phone call from his doctor on Tuesday, August 15, 2023. Robert told him he did not want to transfer, and the doctor stated he understood. The doctor told Robert he was trying to make the traveling easier, Robert said he was not concerned with the traveling just the appointment being changed two weeks prior to the appointment. As soon as Robert hung the phone up it wasn’t 20 minutes later, he received a phone call from the cancer clinic in Augusta, GA that his doctor was just talking about. Robert told them he was not interested in changing his place of care or his care team. Robert told his girlfriend and his mother that the appointment would be on August 25 and not August 24 so if they were able to change their schedules to come with him, he would appreciate it but if not, he understood and did not want to be more of an inconvenience than he already was. Robert’s mother stated she took off anyways because she was going down to Bonneau with his dad on Wednesday so she would be there. Robert’s girlfriend spoke with her boss and was able to take Friday off instead of Thursday. Robert told his girlfriend his mom was already down there, and they would leave Thursday evening when she got off work. His girlfriend said that would be fine.

The evening of Thursday, August 24, 2023, arrived and Robert drove to his parent’s house in Bonneau with his girlfriend. On the way down Robert and his girlfriend stopped at Smashburger to get something to eat. Plus, the restaurant has a lemonade that his girlfriend really likes. Robert sent his mom a text while they were eating to see if she wanted them to get her anything. His mom asked if they would get her some chili from Wendy’s, Robert told her they would. After Robert and his girlfriend finished eating, they drove from Summerville to Bonneau stopping at Wendy’s to get his mother the chili she requested. Robert and his girlfriend finally arrived at Bonneau around 1945 hours. Robert, his girlfriend, and his mother sat up talking for a little while but then knowing they had to get up early to get to the appointment at 0730 hours they all decided to go to bed around 2200 hours. The following morning Robert woke up at 0500 hours and started getting ready. Robert’s mom was already up when he walked out of the bedroom to the kitchen. While Robert was in the kitchen his girlfriend woke up and started getting ready so they could leave by 0545 hours. Each of them completed their morning routine and was ready to leave on time to get to the cancer clinic on time. The drive from Bonneau to downtown Charleston is long and is always backed up with traffic for most of the drive there. This is not anything new, so traffic is always planned for no matter where you are going or what time of day it is. Robert arrived downtown at 0710 hours and was able to park in time to walk into the infusion center to be checked in prior to his 0730 hours appointment time.

### Checking in

Robert spoke with the lady at the check in desk and provided all his information. The lady checked Robert in for all three of his appointments. Robert’s first appointment of the day was getting labs. Robert sat in the waiting room to be called back to get his blood drawn. Robert only waited 5 minutes before being called to the back. Robert followed the nurse into the room and took a seat in the chair. The nurse was getting all the tubes prepared and asking Robert how he was doing today. Robert told her he was doing alright or as good as he could be doing being at an infusion center on a Friday morning. Robert lifted his shirt to expose his port. The nurse grabbed the needle from the table beside the chair and inserted it into Robert’s port. Robert didn’t feel much pain since he remembered to put the lidocaine cream on before leaving the house this morning. The nurse filled each tube and after a few minutes she folded the tube up and taped it to Robert’s chest so he would have it ready to go when he started his infusion. Robert walked out of the room and got his girlfriend and mother so they could walk to another area of the waiting room for the next appointment which was seeing the doctor. Robert was called to get his vitals taken by a tech that always sees him prior to being walked back to the examination room. Once his temperature, blood pressure, and oxygen levels were taken he returned to the waiting room with his girlfriend and mom. They sat patiently waiting to be seen by the doctor. Robert’s girlfriend noticed some lady looking at Robert as she might know him or something but when she brought it to Robert’s attention, he did not recognize the lady. Robert did see that the lady was looking his way for some reason but didn’t have a clue why. Robert was finally called by the tech again but this time it was to follow her to the back to be put in a room to be seen by the doctor. Robert, his girlfriend, and his mom all followed the tech to the room. Robert had a seat on the exam chair while his mom and girlfriend took their seats in the guest chairs. The oncology nurse walked in and asked how everyone was doing and asked Robert about his cough that he has had since his first treatment. Robert told her that he was still coughing, and his chest was hurting. The nurse asked if he was tested for Covid, Robert said he was, and the test was negative. The nurse also asked about the CT that was taken when Robert went to the emergency room. Robert told her it came back clear except for a slight hairline fracture to one of his left side ribs. The nurse talked for a few minutes about mask wearing and hand washing since the Covid numbers seemed to be on the rise again. The nurse finished her spiel and walked out saying the doctor would be right in. The doctor finally came into the room and took her seat on her little wheeling stool by the computer. The doctor asked Robert the same questions as the nurse did and Robert provided the same answers. The doctor took a listen to Robert’s lungs. The doctor said she could hear wheezing in Robert’s lungs but did not know the cause of the cough. The doctor asked Robert if he had allergies, Robert has never had any issues with allergies. This question made Robert’s girlfriend bust out laughing because she was always saying it could be your allergies, but Robert always said no he doesn’t have allergies. As this discussion went round and round with Robert still denying anything with allergies the doctor said she was prescribing him some allergy medication along with an inhaler. The doctor brought the pharmacist in to explain the medication being prescribed. The pharmacist stated he was being prescribed Montelukast, Dextromethorphan-guaifenesin, Loratadine, and Hycodan with homatropine. Each of the medicines being prescribed had to do with allergies so Robert was unsure at the reasoning since he didn’t have allergies. He stated he understood and would take the medication as prescribed. The doctor told Robert she had him scheduled for a PET scan to see how his lymph nodes were doing since starting treatment, but she told him she was going to cancel the PET scan and schedule a CT scan to look at his chest to figure out the cough. The doctor said she was going to schedule the CT scan to be done before Robert’s next treatment. She said it would be done on the same day so he would not have to make any extra trips to Charleston. The doctor said she knows the treatment is working based on Robert’s bloodwork and she did not need a PET scan to tell her. The doctor rolled over to her computer and pulled up a line graph. She said the graph was Robert’s lactate dehydrogenase numbers. As she explained the graph, she stated Robert’s numbers were in the 1500 range when he started which was obviously high but now, they have dropped to the 300 range which was almost normal. Robert wasn’t completely familiar with what she was talking about, but he could tell from her tone it was good news. The doctor advised Robert he was cleared to proceed with his treatment today as scheduled. Robert thanked her and walked out of the exam room with his girlfriend and mother. They walked through the waiting room back to the infusion center where Robert checked in at the desk advising he was cleared for treatment. Robert was told to have a seat and he would be called back when his infusion chair was ready. Robert was unsure if he could have two visitors with him when he went back to get his infusion, but his girlfriend and mom said they would just take turns sitting with him.

### Infusion Chair 24

Not long after Robert checked in with the desk in the infusion center, he was called by a nurse who said he could follow her. Robert stood up and started following the nurse. His girlfriend and mother did the same. As the three of them walked through the hallway to Robert’s infusion chair which was number 24 this week nothing was said about having more than one visitor. Robert took a seat in the infusion chair. His mom sat in the chair that was already in the corner of the room and the nurse went and got his girlfriend a chair which she put next to the infusion chair. Robert was cold so he turned on the heater for the chair and requested a blanket from the nurse. The nurse provided Robert with a warm blanket and gave him his medicine to take just like last time before the treatment started. The nurse gave him Benadryl, Tylenol, and Zofran. The treatment was going to be exactly like the last time and probably the same for each time he received it. The nurse asked Robert what side of his belly he wanted to get the Rituximab shot, he said his right side. The nurse prepared the right side of Robert’s belly and then proceeded to inject the Rituximab. Once the injection was completed, she stated the next thing would be Cyclophosphamide. The nurse hung the IV bag and started the drip to dispense the drug. While Robert was getting the treatment, he had the TV on but wasn’t really watching it since he had his girlfriend and mom to talk to. Robert did fill out a birthday card for his girlfriend’s son that was celebrating his birthday tomorrow. The birthday party was going to be at Robert’s parent’s house so he would be able to swim. Robert felt bad since his birthday was not going to be a big party since he could not be around a lot of people and being the day after treatment he probably was not going to feel too well. Robert’s girlfriend’s son knew that Robert was sick and understood why some precautions had to be taken. He never really seemed to mind, and he did his part with taking vitamins and washing his hands to help Robert stay as healthy as possible during this time. Robert thought it was just another person that he was having a negative impact on because he required so much and had to follow strict guidelines to try and protect himself. It seemed like every person that was around Robert had to change something because of him. It didn’t seem fair, but Robert really didn’t have any other choices at the moment since he had to get treatments and that treatment degraded his immune system. Robert shook that thinking for the time being and focused on the people that took time out of their normal routine to be with him. The three talked and laughed about all kinds of stuff just in normal conversation. It was getting to be lunch time and Robert knew his mom was hungry, but he also knew she would not go get something to eat alone. Robert asked his mom if she was hungry since it was lunch time, she stated she was and then Robert’s girlfriend said she would go with her to get something to eat. Robert’s mom and girlfriend left the infusion center to go get lunch. As soon as they left Robert laid his chair back a little and closed his eyes. Robert was not feeling well but never wanted to portray his feeling bad around his mom. The Cyclophosphamide bag finished dripping and the IV monitor started beeping to alert the nurse. The nurse walked in and took the empty bag down and said the next thing was the Doxorubicin hydrochloride. Robert was familiar with this drug since it went by red devil. Robert still wasn’t exactly sure how it got that name, but he could now speak on it from experience. It’s red and it makes your urine red Robert thought to himself as he made a joke to crack a smile. As the nurse was preparing to administer the drug Robert’s mom and girlfriend returned from eating lunch. Robert’s mom told Robert she got him something as she pulled a cookie out of her purse. Robert thanked her but told her he could not eat anything right now. She put the cookie back in her purse and told him how good it was as she did. The nurse was gowned and ready to give Robert the Doxorubicin hydrochloride which she had to push into the IV line using a huge syringe. This part seemed like it took forever because the nurse had to push the drug at a slow rate and was right next to him the entire time. This usually made for small talk just to get rid of the awkwardness while she was giving the drug. Robert felt the same way he did last time he received this drug. Robert started feeling ill and could feel the drug starting to travel through his body. After both syringes were empty the nurse said she was done. Next the nurse said would be Vincristine. The nurse said this drug would be given just like Cyclophosphamide. The nurse hung the IV bag and started the drip to dispense the drug. This being the last drug administered during his treatment Robert was getting tired of sitting and was ready to go. Robert talked with his mom and girlfriend as they discussed decorating for the birthday party and what all had to be done before tomorrow. As the Vincristine bag emptied the IV monitor sounded to let the nurse know the bag was done. The nurse came in and took down the empty bag and told Robert he was almost ready to go. The nurse unhooked Robert from the IV machine and took the needle from his port. The last part of the treatment is the five days of steroids which the nurse reminded him of. Robert said he knows, and he would take his Prednisone as prescribed. Robert stood up and stretched after having to be seated for 5 hours. The three of them walked out of the infusion center and across the street to the parking garage where the car was parked from this morning when they arrived.

Robert was already feeling weak just like he did three weeks ago at his first treatment. Robert got in the front passenger seat, his mom got in the rear passenger seat, and his girlfriend was the driver, so she got in the driver seat. On the way home they stopped at Spinx so they could fill the car with gas and continue on their way. Robert’s girlfriend who is always looking out and knowing what he needs had a water along with a drink packet that would help Robert with his dehydration. She is always thinking of Robert and makes sure he has what he needs because she knows he never has what he should, or he needs. As they are traveling on the interstate Robert’s mom reaches into her purse and pulls out the huge cookie, she bought Robert at lunch. She hands Robert the cookie and he tells her it looks really good as he sets it on the center console. Robert was still not feeling well enough to try and eat anything, so he just drank his water and looked out the window trying to focus on not being sick. Robert’s girlfriend drove and played tunes from Spotify that she and Robert’s mom enjoyed. The music was a bit outdated but to be expected since it was music Robert’s mom listened to and she likes her oldies. There wasn’t anything wrong with the song choices it was music Robert liked as well just not what he would think of listening to. Robert was able to sneak a little Jack Johnson into the shuffle which his mom said she liked. Robert’s girlfriend stopped at QT in Orangeburg where she bought waters for everyone. Robert thought she might have been getting thirsty herself from all the Runts and Mike and Ike’s she was snacking on. After about two and a half hours they arrived back in Aiken at Robert’s parent’s house. They walked inside and told Robert’s dad how the treatment went. After a short talk about that it was on to more important things like getting the decorations up for the birthday party tomorrow.

### Robert just wanted to lay down

Robert really wasn’t feeling like doing anything besides laying down and trying to get his belly to act right but he knew the nausea was coming so he might as well just not worry about it right now. Robert’s girlfriend got all the decorations from the bedroom and brought them into the dining room. The theme was gross so there were bugs, mold, boogers, and really all sorts of just gross things. Robert’s girlfriend and his dad started hanging stuff and putting on the tablecloths while Robert was given the very easy job of blowing up balloons. This was an especially easy task since he had a machine that would blow the balloons up all Robert had to do was press the balloon to the valve and then tie it. Robert sat in the corner of the dining room in a small medieval chair that his parents had at a desk for some reason with his bag of balloons and his balloon blowing machine. Robert blew up balloons, tied balloons, and set them on the chair next to him for his dad to grab and hang. The three of them were able to decorate the dining room in a gross theme in about an hour and a half and it looked awesome. The decorations turned the normal empty dining room into a room of grossness that was ready for a birthday party. The only thing left to do now was make the cake and cupcakes gross and food picked up tomorrow. When Robert seen how good the room looked and thought how happy his girlfriend’s son would be. Robert was happy because he knew that he would like it. Robert was still a bit disappointed at himself for being sick and preventing a big party, but he did not want to have any negative thoughts in his head for tomorrow, so he tried to ignore whatever his mind was starting to cycle through his head. Robert was excited for the birthday party tomorrow but also worried about his body and everything he went through last time after his treatment. Like always only time will tell and Robert would have to wait to see how his body, mind, and everything reacts. Robert was prepared to suffer through another three weeks because the second treatment was completed, and the next treatment would be number three out of an originally planned six treatments so it would be halfway. Robert’s girlfriend is always telling him to find the positive in things so taking her advice he does try to look for any bit of positive in any situation.
