---
title: 'Weekend Escape'
description: 'Robert and his girlfriend, Tonia, had changed into their beach clothes they headed out to explore the resort and beach'
pubDate: 'Sep 26 2023'
heroImage: '/san-marco-fl.jpeg'
---

### San Marco, Florida

Once Robert and his girlfriend, Tonia, had changed into their beach clothes they headed out to explore the resort and beach. As Robert and Tonia walked out of their room they bumped into a few more of Tonia’s co-workers. Tonia introduced Robert and talked for a minute, during the conversation the guy said there was food down the hall if they were hungry. The guy turned and pointed while saying the food was in another meeting room down the stairs to the right. Robert and Tonia thanked him as they both turned to walk in the direction, he pointed so they could go check out the food. They located the meeting room with the food which had three food tables set up along with a bunch of tables and chairs to allow the employees and guests to sit while they ate. As Robert and Tonia walked into the room, Tonia noticed the company CEO that was standing to the left talking with his wife and the company president who was seated at a table. Tonia told Robert who the men were as she started walking over towards them. Tonia introduced Robert to both the CEO and president of her company. Tonia spoke with both of them briefly before asking Robert if he was hungry. Robert told her he was not really hungry but as always if the food was something he couldn’t resist he could eat. They walked over to the food tables to see what the options were. The food was laid out with each individual dish being labeled. There was an assortment of different types of pita chips and crackers with hummus on one table, one table had a variety of different types of sandwiches, and the third table was lined with fruit. The food was healthy and light, but Robert and Tonia decided to wait to eat dinner since it was already 1430 hours and dinner was scheduled for 1900 hours. Tonia and Robert walked out of the meeting room and exited the building through double glass doors directly across from the room that led to a terrace with artificial grass with a pristine beach view. While they were walking Tonia was telling Robert about some of the employees and the executives. Tonia said most of the food would be healthy and stuff Robert would like because the CEO is a vegan. Robert told her that would be good, especially being out in the heat when anything heavy would be difficult to eat. Robert and Tonia walked through the terrace and onto the white sand beach. The view was absolutely amazing, Robert thought. Tonia asked Robert how he was feeling as they stopped to take their sandals off to walk the beach. Robert told Tonia he was alright; he said his side was hurting a little but not anything that would prevent him from enjoying his time with her. Robert felt the pain in his side, his bones were achy and sore, and his right side of his chest was tender, but he did not want to say anything because it was the constant pain, he felt most days so there was no need to make Tonia worry about it for no reason. Robert and Tonia walked the beach towards the water passing a few cabanas and rows of lounge chairs that were set up for the guest to use. When they got to the water Robert and Tonia both commented on how good the water felt. Tonia asked Robert if he wanted to find lounge chairs to set their stuff down so they could get in the water, Robert told her of course. Robert and Tonia walked to the rows of lounge chairs and found two side by side that were not being used which already had towels folded on them. They set their stuff down and then they took a few pictures of the beach and then of the resort before putting their cell phones on the lounge chairs so they could return to the water.

Robert and Tonia wadded in the water which was smooth and clear. Tonia said something about shark attacks and was wondering what the chances were of being attacked by a shark. Robert smiled and laughed because Tonia was always thinking of what could happen. Robert thought to himself that he was not going to worry about possible shark attacks just like possible plane crashes, he had enough to worry about if he wanted to worry about anything. The water allowed Robert and Tonia to see what was on the bottom, which was great because they both enjoyed looking for shells. Robert and Tonia did exactly that while they were enjoying the weather, atmosphere, and each other. Tonia was able to find a few shells that were worth keeping so she held onto them until they were done and then she carried them to the lounge chairs to put with her stuff. Tonia asked Robert what time it was, and he glanced to his left wrist to check his watch, but it wasn’t there, and he told Tonia he would tell her the time, but he was unable to because she made him take his watch off since it is held together with tape. They both laughed as they grabbed their cell phones to check the time. It was 1630 hours. They still had an hour and a half before the first company event which was a meet and greet cocktail hour on the beach at 1800 hours. The itinerary had the event, location, and times on it, so they knew what was going on and the time it was happening but the location they were unsure of. Robert asked Tonia if she wanted to walk around the resort to locate the different areas so they would have an idea of where to go, she said that would be good. Tonia also pointed out a tiki bar that was on the beach that they needed to check out. Robert and Tonia gathered their belongings and headed to the tiki bar. Some of Tonia’s co-workers were there mingling with each other. Tonia recognized a few people she wanted to introduce to Robert. Robert had no clue who most of the co-workers were, but he was familiar with a few names if Tonia had talked about them or mentioned them in a story. One person Robert was able to put a face with a name was Lisa. Tonia made her way around trying to speak with everyone and she was also meeting new people from different offices she did not work with often. Robert followed her around enjoying himself to meet the people Tonia worked with. Tonia and Robert both got drinks from the tiki bar after they were done speaking with everyone as they walked towards one of the pools. This pool had a cliff, slide, and a waterfall. It was a pretty cool pool. As they kept walking around, they noticed another pool which was not as fun-looking as the first one, but it appeared more relaxing with different islands placed about with palm trees. When they saw the second pool, they also noticed another terrace that was set up kind of like the initial one they walked through. The resort had a walkway which traveled around the resort passing by or through different areas like beach accesses, bars, terraces, and pools. After walking for about 30 minutes, they had an idea of where the stuff was located but they didn’t know the names of the areas, so it didn’t help much with knowing where to go, especially since there was another company hosting activities as well. Robert was starting to feel really fatigued from the heat and the walking, but he told himself before coming he was not going to complain or do anything to ruin the trip. Robert thought that seemed like an easy task but given the way his mind had been working it could get difficult. He knew he had to try and stay in front of his thoughts somehow. The introductions and talking to people helped because it took Robert’s mind off of anything, so he did not have to over process to try to keep his mind from wandering. Tonia told Robert that she wanted to change outfits before going to the meet and greet so they walked back to the room. As they were walking back, they noticed the resort was setting up tables on the beach near the second terrace they saw, and it did have a sign that stated private event with her company name on it. When Robert and Tonia seen the signs, they said they knew where to go now so all they had to do is change and walk back down.

### Ironing out some wrinkles

Robert emptied his suitcase looking for an outfit to where to meet and greet and also to dinner since the dinner was scheduled right after the meet and greet. Once Robert took all his clothes from the suitcase, he noticed they looked wrinkled, so he needed to iron all of them. Robert looked around the room for an iron and ironing board. He was able to locate the iron and ironing board in a closet, so he pulled it out and set it up to start ironing his clothes. While Robert was ironing Tonia was doing her hair and make-up and told Robert to leave the iron out because she needed to use it too. Robert finished all the ironing and now he had to figure out what to wear. Robert knew he was wearing khaki shorts so now he just had to pick a shirt. Tonia ironed her clothes and was also piecing together an outfit. Robert did not want to bug Tonia while she was trying to get ready, but he eventually asked her which shirt out of a green and light purple polo shirt. Tonia said she liked the light purple polo; Robert was glad because he did too, and it was a dry fit so he would be cool while outside. Tonia decided on a pair of black shorts with an olive-colored shirt. Robert thought she looked beautiful as always. Robert took a moment and appreciated where he currently was and who he was with because it was so nice to have someone so wonderful. Robert knew his life might not be going the way he planned or even good on most days, but he had amazing people in his life that made a horrible situation better. Robert told Tonia she looked great, and they were prepared to go to the beach to meet and greet. Robert and Tonia walked to the beach area that was marked off for the private event. The area had three bars around it with several food tables and tables and chairs in the center. There was also a small stage which had speakers and a microphone on it. Tonia took the lead walking around telling Robert who the people were and their job title along with the office they worked out of. Tonia walked and talked about it with Robert close in tow behind her. Tonia asked Robert if he wanted something to drink, he said sure as they walked up to one of the bars. Robert and Tonia eventually took a seat at one of the tables so they could eat and relax. The CEO made a speech and thanked all the employees for what they did to make the company so great. The CEO also said Marco Island was the chosen location for the 30th anniversary because it was the place, he proposed to his wife so it would always be special, and he wanted to share it with everyone. The meet and greet was fixed to end, which meant it was almost dinner time which Robert was ready for because he was starting to get hungry. As everyone was starting to walk to the terrace where dinner was going to be held Tonia saw some of her Canadian co-workers. Tonia introduced Robert to all three of them which made up the Canadian office. While talking with Scott, Charmane, and Swan the sun was setting over the Gulf which looked amazing. Robert and Tonia asked Charmane if she cared to take their picture, she said not at all. Robert then took a photo of Tonia, Charmane, and Swan with the sunset backdrop. With such a wonderful picture opportunity Robert told his new Canadian friend, Scott, to stand with him and when he did Tonia took their picture. The sun was dropping, and the clock was nearing 1930 hours so the five of them walked from the beach to the terrace to find a table for dinner. Robert, Tonia, Scott, Charmane, and Swan all sat at the same table to eat dinner together. The dinner service was set up like a buffet with 4 different food tables and two bars located on each side of the terrace. Robert walked up to each food table to see what there was to eat. There was pizza, burger sliders, chicken sliders, pasta with marinara, pasta with pesto, and two fish options. There were also several types of salad and a whole table full of dessert and a gelato bar. Robert was excited to eat so he and Tonia got in line so they could get their plates. Robert got one of everything because it all looked so good. Robert’s plate was full, so he walked slowly back to the table to start eating. Robert and Tonia were both really happy with the food choices and everything tasted great. Robert ate mostly everything except for a small piece of fish because he was too full to eat anything else. Robert felt so full he was not even able to enjoy any of the desserts. After everyone finished eating, they sat and talked for a while before everyone went their separate ways to go back to their rooms. Robert and Tonia returned to their room around 2145 hours. Robert took a shower and laid down. Robert was worn out and exhausted. Tonia took a shower and set out some of her clothes for tomorrow before getting into the bed. Before going to sleep Tonia read over the itinerary for tomorrow’s events. It starts with breakfast, then beach time for a few hours, lunch, a small break until cocktail hour, dinner, and then an evening event. Robert thought it was going to be another wonderful day as he closed his eyes to try and fall asleep.

The next morning Robert woke up feeling a little nauseated, but he figured it was because he ate so much food the night before. Robert still felt full, but it was breakfast time, and they were going to go so he might have to eat something, so he isn’t being weird just sitting there. Tonia got up and got ready to go and when she was done her and Robert walked out to the terrace to eat breakfast. Robert looked at all the food once again and it was a delicious looking assortment of pastries, eggs, breakfast meats, fruit, and an oatmeal bar. Robert loves to eat oatmeal, so he made a bowl with brown sugar, honey, almonds, raisins, and apples. While eating breakfast they were joined by one of the co-workers that they saw at the airport and his wife. Robert talked with Steve who was from North Carolina and in sales. After finishing breakfast Tonia and Robert returned to their room to get changed into beach clothes since the next thing was fun on the beach with lunch on the beach as well. Robert took a few bathing suits but his favorite one was the one with red chili peppers on them so that is what he decided to wear with a cotton white button shirt. Tonia put her bathing suit on and told Robert she was going to put sunscreen on him before they left. Robert and Tonia sprayed each other with sunscreen and then left the room to go to the beach. On the way to the beach Tonia received a text from Charmane who said she was with Scott and Swan on the beach, and they had extra lounge chairs next to them so they could join. Robert and Tonia located their Canadian friends and put their stuff down on the saved lounge chairs that was beside them. Scott asked Robert if he wanted to walk to the bar with him, Robert said sure and asked Tonia what she wanted. Tonia just said to get her something good. As Scott and Robert were walking to the bar, Scott was telling Robert about some turtle drink he had yesterday that was really good. Robert said it sounded good and he might have to give it a try. Scott and Robert arrived at the bar and stood waiting while there were a few patrons in front of them. Robert looked at the menu and saw the turtle drink Scott was praising. Robert wasn’t sure what he wanted, and he really didn’t know what Tonia wanted so when it was their turn to order Robert still hadn’t decided so he just ordered him and Tonia one of the turtle drinks. The bartender made the drinks and set the four turtles on the counter. As they were being rang up Scott told Robert he had it, Robert thanked him and said he would get the next ones. Robert and Scott walked slowly back to the beach with the four drinks trying not to spill any. When they got back to their spot Tonia and Charmane was walking from the water. Robert, Tonia, Charmane, and Scott each grabbed their drink and walked together to the water. The four of them hung out in the water while talking and socializing with other co-workers that were also in the water. The day was beautiful, but it was really sunny which was making it really hot, and the gulf water was also warm, so it was not helping to cool off. The conversations continued while playing in the water for a little more than an hour. Once they were all ready to get out the water, they decided to play cornhole. The boards were already set up and there was an empty one, so they walked over to it to play. The teams were Robert and Tonia against Scott and Charmane. Robert and Tonia said the United States against Canada. The game was fun and not to competitive, so the score didn’t really matter. Everyone was starting to get really hot since they were out of the water, but it was almost lunch time. Robert could see the resort staff setting up an area of the beach for the lunch meal. Robert and Tonia asked Scott and Charmane if they wanted to go to the pool after lunch, they both said sure. Robert was way too hot to eat anything, so he wasn’t looking forward to lunch plus he was still full from last night’s dinner. Robert and Tonia decided to stop the cornhole game at 12 to 12 so it could end in a tie. Robert, Tonia, Scott, and Charmane went to the area of the beach where lunch was being served to see what it was. Grilled cheeseburgers and chicken were being served from the grill and there was a table with baked beans, pasta salad, potato salad, and chips. Robert didn’t want to eat so he just went and sat at the table with Swan who already had her food. Tonia went and got a cheeseburger, but she was saying she was also too hot to eat anything right now. Tonia told Robert she was going to take the cheeseburger to their room, and she would be right back. Tonia covered the plate with a napkin and proceeded to walk across the beach to the resort to the room carrying the cheeseburger plate. Robert talked with Swan since Tonia was gone and she was next to him. Swan was from Vietnam but lived in Canada. She said her fiancée went to school with her in Vietnam, but they never dated in school, and she ran into him again in Canada many years later. Robert said that is definitely fate for them to be together. Scott, Charmane, and Swan finished eating and Tonia returned so they all went to the pool. The pool water was much cooler than the gulf, so it was more refreshing since it was still hot outside. Everyone floated around the pool talking to one another and drinking their drinks. The pool was really relaxing, and the water felt good at Robert’s port especially after being in the sun. Robert and Scott walked back over to the tiki bar to get drinks again, Robert owed Scott from earlier so Robert paid for the turtles this time. When Robert and Scott got back to the pool a circle had formed and the people were throwing a small ball around. Tonia was in the circle trying to catch and throw the ball, so Robert got back in the pool and went to the side to avoid the circle. Robert talked with Tonia’s current boss while she was playing, and he was relaxing. Tonia’s boss said his daughter thought about going to South Carolina but didn’t care for the mascot, so she decided on Pittsburgh. Robert found that funny but couldn’t blame anyone for not wanting to be a cock. Robert was starting to feel really tired from being out in the sun all day and it was almost 1530 hours. Robert asked Tonia if she wanted to go back to the room for a bit plus the Georgia vs. South Carolina football game was on. Tonia said that would be fine because she wanted to watch the football game too and they would have to get ready for cocktail hour by 1800 hours. Tonia and Robert left the pool to return to their room.

### Cocktails and Dinner

Robert laid in the bed watching the football game, but he knew South Carolina wasn’t going to win because they never do so he fell asleep at halftime. Robert woke up at the end of the game just in time to catch the score and see that Georgia won. The weather outside was starting to look kind of cloudy but there was no rain in the forecast. Tonia was already up starting to get ready for the evening events so Robert got out of bed and started to pick out an outfit. Robert decided to keep with the beachy theme and put on khaki shorts and a white button up. Tonia was wearing a black floral skirt with a garnet shirt. She was looking really good, especially rocking the garnet. While Robert and Tonia were getting ready Tonia received a message that the cocktail time was changed due to the possibility of bad weather. Tonia said it was pushed back an hour but wasn’t sure about dinner because nobody said anything about the dinner time being adjusted. Robert and Tonia just hung out in the room for an extra thirty minutes before walking back down to the beach to join the others for cocktail hour. Robert and Tonia arrived on the beach and started to mingle around. The weather was cooler than it was in the afternoon because of the breeze and the clouds. The clouds prevented a nice sunset like last night, but a lot of the employees and guests remained on the beach until it started getting dark then everyone walked over to the terrace for dinner. There was a large stage set up in the middle of the terrace with instruments and microphones. Robert was still not hungry, but his stomach was hurting from either not eating today or having too much food in his belly. Tonia and Robert sat at an empty table and saved three spots for Scott, Charmane, and Swan. Tonia and Robert walked up to the food tables that were set up just like last night to see what was on the menu for tonight. There were short ribs, braised lamb, two types of chicken breast, and some pasta. The other tables had salad and dessert also like before. Robert did not see the gelato bar tonight, which he was upset he didn’t get any last night. Robert went through the line and made his plate. Robert got braised lamb and a piece of chicken. When he got back to the table Scott, Charmane, and Swan were there waiting. Robert sat and told them they could go ahead. Tonia was right behind with her plate. Robert and Tonia said tonight didn’t seem as good as last night’s food choices. The food was excellent but Robert and Tonia both enjoy the simpler food with a lot of flavors, so they aren’t impressed by lamb or short ribs. While everyone was eating a band started playing on the stage in the center of the terrace. Robert finished his plate and went to the dessert table just to see what was there. Robert saw different kinds of cannoli, so he grabbed two. After Robert finished eating the dessert, he was starting to feel really sick at his stomach. Robert had eaten more food in the past 48 hours than he had eaten in three weeks. When the majority of the people were done eating the center of the terrace was turned into a dance floor. Robert was doing good to breath, so he did not want to dance or try to move any more than he had to. Robert felt bad because Tonia probably wanted to dance which she could have but he wished he felt good enough to with her. Robert tried to stay quiet and stood to the side and people watched while the dance floor was filling up. Robert had done good all day, but he could feel his mood changing and his mind was drifting. As Robert stood to the side of the dance floor with Tonia listening to the music, he started to salivate badly. Robert swallowed a couple times hoping the feeling would go away but it did not. Robert told Tonia he was going to the restroom and rushed inside. Robert did not want to go to the restroom in case someone came in or noticed him, so he went back to the room. As soon as Robert entered the room he went to the toilet and threw up. Robert knew he ate way too much food and that is why he was feeling sick. Robert sat next to the toilet for about 10 minutes before brushing his teeth and walking back to the terrace. On Robert’s way back outside an older gentleman asked if he was okay, Robert said he was and thanked him for asking. Robert knew he had passed the guy as he was rushing to his room. Robert told Tonia he felt a little better but was sick to his stomach. Robert asked Tonia if she wanted to walk on the beach and she said yeah in a few minutes.

Robert, Tonia, Charmane, and Swan all left the terrace to go to the beach. Tonia and Robert got to the sand and took off their sandals so they could leave them by the sidewalk. Robert and Tonia walked the beach looking for seashells. It was low tide so there were three separate rows of shell banks that they were able to look through. Charmane and Swan wanted to go relax in the hammocks before heading up to their rooms to sleep. There were no lights on the beach, so it was extremely dark which made the stars look amazing. Robert had a wonderful weekend with Tonia and was sad they had to go back home the next day. The time went by fast, but it was time well spent with each event to get to know more and more of the people Tonia works with. Robert tried to stop his mind from wandering as they were looking for shells, but it started forcing thoughts in. Robert knew the weekend escape was coming to an end and he would be going back to his daily struggles. Robert and Tonia found a bunch of good shells that they carried back to the room. Robert started to pack his suitcase once they got back to the room so he would not have to do it in the morning. Tonia was also starting to pack up the few things she could that she would not need in the morning. Robert put the Colorado football game on while they were packing. Robert got most of his stuff together and in the suitcase except what he might need or wear tomorrow. Robert took a shower and got into bed to relax while watching the game. Tonia said she was getting a little hungry since she did not eat much at dinner. Tonia wondered if the resort had a snack machine. Tonia called the front desk to ask, and they said there were no snack machines on the property. The front desk said most of the restaurants are closed so if food was needed it would have to be ordered through room service. Tonia looked up the late-night menu that was offered by room service and noticed it was ridiculous pricing and there were literally 4 different fees attached to it. Robert told her that he still had a muffin if she would like, Tonia said no thanks. Tonia pulled some peanut butter crackers from her bag and started eating them. Before Tonia and Robert went to sleep a message was sent out to the guest advising breakfast for tomorrow morning was moved inside due to rain.

### The Escape was over

Sunday morning when Robert and Tonia woke up, they got dressed and checked the room to make sure they were not leaving another behind. After they checked they decided to go eat breakfast before checking out. Robert ate a bowl of oatmeal from the oatmeal bar which was so good. Tonia was talking about a nice guy she met at MGU in New York that she didn’t see this weekend and she was wondering if he would come. While they were eating breakfast a couple sat down at the table with them and the guy that sat down was the guy Tonia was talking about. They talked for a few minutes and then Robert and Tonia went back to their room to retrieve their luggage. Robert and Tonia checked the room one more time just to make sure they didn’t miss anything. Once they were satisfied that everything was packed, they walked to the front desk to check out. After checking out Tonia requested an Uber to take them to the airport to catch their flight from Ft. Myers to Atlanta. Robert and Tonia waited out front of the resort. While waiting Robert started thinking about his third treatment which was scheduled for tomorrow, Monday, September 18, 2023. Robert was driving to Charleston this evening with his father once he and Tonia arrived back in Aiken. The wonderful weekend was ending, and Robert had to return to his reality, the escape was over.
