---
title: 'Day 100'
description: 'Halfway to getting back to the path.'
pubDate: 'Oct 6, 2023'
heroImage: '/day-100.jpg'
---

### Day 100

Robert has been going through this difficult chapter in his life since his birthday, June 28, 2023, today being October 6, 2023, makes it 100 days. The past 100 days have been extremely difficult for Robert with ups and downs. The downs definitely outweigh the ups. Since this journey started Robert’s life has changed as he has been searching for normal. Robert still has been unable to find normal or at least what he once knew as his normal. As time has passed Robert has made mistakes and done stuff that is out of character for him which discourages him each time, he does something that upsets someone else. Robert really tries to do what he thinks is right and is being done to help but most of the time but it seems everything he does is not helpful at all. Robert also says stuff that just makes people angry or makes them feel bad. Robert was hoping to do better as the days went by but from the looks of things that is not the case, and he continues to struggle with keeping his life in order. With the hard times controlling his mentality he never knows what to do or say to prevent the negative effect he has on people. Robert wishes this experience he is having to go through never happened to him and he could have just continued on the path he was on prior to the diagnosis. Unfortunately, with life you do not get to go back in time to change anything so you must deal with everything and anything life gives you. Since there are no do overs or turning back time Robert knows he has to try to maintain some kind of control to stay on the same road without totally ruining it by his words or actions no matter what he is going through or feeling. Each day Robert tells himself to just keep going and everything will hopefully work out and there is an end in sight. It might not be the end of his lymphoma, but it will be the end of chemotherapy which is what he wants to be done with. The most disappointing thing to Robert is after 100 days he is still continuously messing up with everything. Robert is happy about the small things that have been discovered to help him with certain issues to allow him to have better days as far as eating, pain, and nausea goes but each of those have to do with him and does not help with how he is affecting others. Robert would do anything to be able to be himself and in control of every aspect of his life by this point. Robert thinks if he could be in control, he would know the outcome and not have to worry about what might happen.

### Looking back to see the future

The way it is going and has been going Robert just has to keep trying to do better and hope he does not ruin the rest of his life from one bad stint. Robert looks back at his life to process each mistake he has made to put him in the position he is in but never sees what he did so terribly wrong to have him where he is at the age of 40. The diagnosis makes no sense to Robert because he always lived his life with good intentions and tried to help people with their issues to the best of his ability. So, Robert wonders if he could have done things differently to avoid this but without a crystal ball he will never know. Robert never thought at 39 he would decide to change careers and then turn 40 to only have his entire life put on hold to prevent him from finishing what he started. Robert would have graduated a few days ago if he could have kept going without putting anything to the side, which means he would probably be starting his new career today instead of starting to dread his next treatment. Robert knows he would also have been able to be himself and not hurt the people he loves by his actions and his words from his inability to say what is right. Robert just wants to be the man he knows he is without any interference from any circumstance or chemo that has him sidetracked or in a mental state of cloudiness. The feeling Robert has had the past 100 days are feelings he has never thought about so living through it he has no clue which can be easily seen by the way he has handled it. There is no book that tells anyone how to live once being diagnosed with cancer and how to get through chemotherapy. Each person has different experiences and is affected in different ways so Robert is no different and even if there was a book it might not work for him, so he has to keep trying and learning from trial and error.

Robert has been able to learn plenty from trial and error with the help of others that have given him tips and ideas on how to deal with certain ailments along with assistance with all sorts of things. The past 100 days have not been all bad for Robert, he has still been able to enjoy his time with family and loved ones in his heart, which is what matters. The times Robert has confusion on how he is feeling it is always in his mind and not his heart. Chemotherapy might make Robert feel a whirlwind of emotion at any given time which is difficult to hide or pretend nothing is wrong but with physical pain he can work through or just not let it affect him so he can do stuff that needs to be done and stuff he wants to do without showing signs of hurting. Even if he shows signs of pain people want to help him get through it but Robert thinks he is being an inconvenience or hassle by being that way which is why he tries to hide what he can to not have the people that care worrying all the time about stuff. Robert wants each of his loved ones to live their life and not take on extra stress or worrying with his issues since he knows everyone has enough to stress or worry about without his issues being put on them for no reason. In the end Robert is the one with the illness and he must learn to manage it so as he moves on to future days and treatments, he needs to take the past 100 days and use them as a learning experience to do better with how situations are handled for himself and for the ones that have been there for him through this ordeal. Robert knows what he wants and knows what he needs to do so Robert will take all the advice he has received to proceed through the end to achieve it and get back on his path and put this difficult time behind him. Robert will eventually make it back to his path he can control and restart living the life he wants using what he went through as a learning experience. Robert will move forward knowing how important family and loved ones are, no matter what, the ones that are here and have been there are for a reason which should be cherished. There is so much more to life than material things and money. Just understanding that in 100 days is great because Robert never thought he was where he should be at 40 but he realizes he has more than he could ask for and is exactly where he should be. It is not easy, but the hard times bring the loved ones closer and will make him stronger than he was before just for going through this chapter.

### Robert is determined this is just another chapter

This chapter will not define Robert but will add another piece to him to make him more understanding of life as a whole, which will make him an even better human than he was prior to going on this journey. Robert has written 15 posts in the past 100 days to try to explain his journey by telling his story of how it started and each step along the way with the stuff he has learned and how he felt through some of the experiences. Robert does the writing to help him understand everything and to allow others to read so they can know what to expect if they have a diagnosis, they are not sure about and might help them get through certain rough times in their lives knowing life can get hard for no apparent reason, but it is not the end just a chapter they must get past. Robert started writing a little after he already started his process through this cancer thing, so he was having to catch up to get to where he is currently in his journey. Today is day 100 and he is coming to the end of weeks 3 after his third treatment so he is caught up and can now post as he needs to as he proceeds through the second half of the treatment regimen. Robert’s fourth treatment is on Monday, 10/9/2023, after that treatment he will be passed halfway and the light at the end of the tunnel will keep getting brighter and brighter as days pass. Tough times are still to come, and Robert knows that, but it is a necessary evil to get back to his path and keep going with the life he has planned for. This chapter of Robert’s life still has him wondering why but it is here, and he must go through it so in the grand scheme of things the why really doesn’t matter. Robert will continue to travel this bumpy path of his lymphoma journey keeping the knowledge the first 100 days have given him to make the next 3 treatments the best he can.
