---
title: 'Preparations for Treatment'
description: 'Robert knew his diagnosis along with the course of treatment'
pubDate: 'Sep 12 2023'
heroImage: '/blog-placeholder-2.jpg'
---

### Getting the ball rolling

Robert knew his diagnosis along with the course of treatment he would be receiving to treat the lymphoma. The next appointment scheduled was to have a port placed to receive the chemotherapy treatments intravenously. This appointment was scheduled for August 2, 2023, which was 34 days after receiving the initial diagnosis. Robert arrived at this appointment a little nervous. Robert had seen ports in the operating room on patients but was unsure exactly what the procedure was. So, like most people that have questions about something Robert decided to Google ports. This idea turned out not so good because it made Robert more nervous than he was when he first arrived. As Robert read articles about the procedure, he noticed a port could be placed in his inner arm or on his chest. Most ports appeared to be placed in the patient’s chest. After about 20 minutes Robert decided to stop with the googling since it wasn’t helping him relax at all. Robert started to just play games on his phone until he was called.

Robert waited approximately 40 minutes before a nurse came to the lobby to get him and walk him to the back. As Robert was walking with the nurse, he started asking her questions to try a figure out what he could expect. Robert asked where the port would be placed, the nurse said she was not sure of his exact case but most likely it would be placed in his chest. Robert asked if the procedure was a surgery (like would it require being put under with anesthesia), the nurse told him it would not require anesthesia just a local anesthetic to numb the chest area where the port would be placed. That information put Robert at ease because he was not wanting to be put under. The fact of not being aware of what is going on or able to know what steps are being taken as the procedure is taking place is a fearful thought to Robert and he wanted nothing done that would require him to be under anesthesia. The short walk to the procedure room was able to calm Robert down by just asking those few questions. When Robert entered the room, he was introduced to another nurse and the doctor that would be performing the procedure. Once the doctor introduced himself, he told Robert he would be back in a little while to insert the port. When the doctor was done talking the other nurse asked Robert to have a seat on the table so he could take his vitals. Robert’s vitals were taken to make sure he was good to continue as planned with the port procedure. The nurse explained the procedure step by step and advised Robert of the possible complications. Robert started smiling while the nurse was telling him the complications because something that seemed simple could actually cause death in extreme cases. Robert could have been a lot more relaxed and ready without that information. The nurse said he was required to advise the patient of the information. Robert told him he knew and understood. Next a consent form was handed to Robert for him to look over what was just explained and to sign. Robert said let’s stay away from the complications and this will be an easy procedure as he signed the consent form and handed it back to the nurse. The nurse asked Robert to remove his shirt and lay on the table. Robert did what was requested and mentally prepared himself for the next hour while the port was going to be inserted into his chest. Robert was hooked up to a monitor so his vitals would be monitored during the procedure.

### But my tattoo ... ?

All the explaining and getting ready took about 30 minutes. The doctor walked back into the room and was handed a towel by the nurse to dry his hands after he scrubbed in and then he was gowned and gloved. The doctor told Robert he was going to inject the local anesthetic to numb the area he would be working so he warned Robert of a few pokes while he was injecting the local around his chest and neck. As the anesthetic was starting to take effect the doctor marked on Robert’s chest to mark his incisions and the port and catheter placement. Robert asked the doctor if he could avoid cutting into his tattoo on his chest, the doctor said he would put the port above it so he would not have to ruin the tattoo. Robert laughed and told the doctor he appreciated it. Once the chest and neck were numb the doctor began the procedure. An incision was made on the right side of Robert’s upper chest where the port was inserted. The next incision was made on the right side of Robert’s neck where the catheter was put in and pushed down to the port so it could be connected. The doctor put Dermabond on each incision to close them and told Robert the port was successfully placed. Robert said that’s it, the doctor said yeah that is it. The doctor advised Robert, he would prescribe him some pain medication and he would receive paperwork on caring for the wound until it was healed before being discharged. Robert decided to lie on the table for a few moments before sitting up and getting dressed. The brief time Robert was waiting to sit up he was thinking about his situation and everything he had gone through the past 34 days once finding out his life was changed for the time being. Robert never had any major medical procedures and was rarely sick but now he was having to experience everything at one time as he dealt with his pain from his enlarged spleen and swollen lymph nodes along with having medical procedures done while going to medical appointments each week. The sudden change in the way of life was unbelievable he thought. Robert knew all this was necessary to save his life and treat him to provide him with the best possible outcome.

Robert could feel a little pain in his chest and neck, but it wasn’t horrible just a little discomfort as he was getting ready to leave. The nurse asked Robert if he had someone waiting in the lobby to drive him home. Robert told the nurse his cousin was waiting for him in the parking garage, and he would walk down there to meet her. Robert was feeling lightheaded and did not really have anyone to drive him, so he decided to walk to the cafeteria at MOSL to get something to drink until he felt better. Robert sat in the cafeteria drinking an orange juice and reading through his discharge paperwork. The paperwork stated not to remove the bandage or get the site wet for 72 hours and then it said not to soak the wound or swim for 10 days. The medication prescribed was ibuprofen and oxycontin for the pain which was to be taken every 6 hours as necessary. After about an hour Robert was feeling fine and was ready to go home since he had to be back in the morning for his first chemotherapy appointment.

Robert arrived at home and his chest was starting to hurt because the local anesthetic was finally wearing off. Robert took some ibuprofen and laid on the couch to watch tv and get some rest. Robert laid down but did not get much rest because he could not get in a comfortable position where his chest and neck was not bothering him. This pain and discomfort lasted throughout the night. Besides the feeling of pain, Robert’s mind was also racing thinking about tomorrow and what to expect from the treatment. The scariest part is the unknown, no matter how much you read or research you never know until you experience it yourself. Robert was by himself so his thoughts would remain in his head as he tried to process all the information and possible outcomes. Robert eventually fell asleep around 0330 hours which did not leave much time since his next appointment was at 0700 hours meaning he would have to wake up at 0500 hours to leave by 0530 hours.
