---
title: 'Second week after third treatment'
description: 'Monday was the start of week 2 after Robert’s third treatment'
pubDate: 'Oct 4 2023'
heroImage: '/blog-placeholder-5.jpg'
---

### Week 2

Monday, September 25, 2023, was the start of week 2 after Robert’s third treatment. The first week was probably the worst so far by the way Robert was feeling and thinking. Robert was feeling less nauseated by the second week, but his stomach was still hurting since he had not been able to go to the bathroom in six days. Everything Robert is required to take including the chemotherapy drugs constipates him, so it is an issue after each treatment. The past two treatments he was finally able to go on day seven but not after treatment three. Robert’s burning and tingling sensation had subsided in his bones a little but not as good as previous weeks, but he thinks it is because he had not been walking as often as he did after the other treatments. The main pain he felt was from his four fractured ribs which he knew would take some time to heal, especially since he keeps doing stuff not allowing his body to rest to help with the healing process. The metallic taste was still in his mouth, but the mouthwash and Miracle Berries helped take that taste out of his mouth for the most part. Robert would keep trying to do more and more each week to work on his endurance and in the mornings while he walks with Tonia, they do trivia to work on Robert’s memory and knowledge. Each part of what Robert seems to be affected from something during this cancer thing rather it’s the chemotherapy drugs or the overload of emotion or lack of doing stuff or not being able to work. Robert is not sure what is causing the mental side effects. It’s a lot more difficult to figure out that aspect than the physical part which he knows is from the chemotherapy drugs and the nausea is also from the chemo. Robert tries to keep his mind and thoughts in line, especially after talking with Tonia and realizing he is not being perceived as he is trying to express his self-most of the time.

### Robert finds value in little things

Robert was able to do the housework that keeps him busy a little better this week since he did not get as tired or exhausted as quickly as he did the first week. Robert still got fatigued doing the simple tasks, but he was able to do them. Doing the tasks around the house is not important in the big scheme of things but it is important to Robert to do something to try and help his mind and thoughts from being negative about him being useless or irrelevant. Robert also knows that Tonia works all day, and he wants to do stuff to help take at least some of the heavy workload off of her. Robert tells Tonia how he feels, and he knows it’s not true, but he can’t help how the thoughts come and go no matter what he does. Tonia always tells him he does a lot around the house, and he is not useless, Robert tries to explain how his mind thinks but trying to explain it is difficult and really doesn’t make sense when he puts it into words. Robert still attempts to so Tonia will know how he is feeling and what is in his head. As the other weeks have gone by, this week is going to be much of the same with that Groundhog Day feeling. Robert is looking forward to the weekend since they have REC in the morning Saturday and plan to see Angel and Don that evening which should be fun. On the weekdays of the second week Robert wakes up around 0530 hours. If Robert is feeling restless, he will just get out of bed as soon as he wakes up so he does not bother Tonia with his moving around but if he is not restless, he will lay in bed until 0700 hours when it is time to get up. Everyone is up by 0700 hours to get ready for the day and be out the door by 0715 hours to walk to school. After the walk to school Robert and Tonia go for a walk around the neighborhood if time permits and Tonia does not have a busy day. Robert enjoys the morning walks because the morning temperature is starting to get nice, and he gets to spend some time with Tonia just walking and talking. Once they get back home Tonia gets ready for work and Robert will get her water ready and ask her if she is hungry. If Tonia is hungry Robert will make bacon and egg sandwiches for breakfast. After making breakfast Robert will do the dishes and clean the kitchen counters. Most of the time the counters aren’t dirty since they are cleaned often but they are wiped down just as part of a routine at this point. Robert will sweep the kitchen and living room along with the hallway and their room. If Robert notices any spots on the floor, he will mop the hardwood floors a few times a week, he only did it twice during the second week. The coffee table and side tables are wiped off in the living room. After each of the normal daily tasks are done Robert will sit and type for a little bit to try and get his thoughts out so they will be less affecting to him and help him try to understand everything as he types it. When Robert is done sitting, he picks a task to do such as a certain room to clean or organize something. Robert just wants to stay busy during the day doing something. This week he has a little more to keep him occupied since Halloween decorations have been being put up and he has a few to find places for so he can occupy his time with that as well as doing other stuff too. Tonia’s son gets home from school around 1500 hours and then dinner will be started about an hour or so after that depending on if there is a soccer game or not. Robert tries to have dinner cooked by the time Tonia gets off work at 1700 hours so they can eat together as a family and then have time together in the evening. The days are a bit busy with less time on evenings of games, but the soccer games are fun to watch, and they usually have other family members show up, so they get to watch and spend time with them. Tonia’s mom and sister come to the games along with Robert’s mom and dad. Tonia’s cousin also comes with her boys when she is off, and her boys don’t have something planned. Tonia and Robert try to go to her cousin’s boy’s games when they can.

On Monday, 9/25/2023, Robert woke up and got dressed for the walk to school. When Robert and Tonia returned home Robert asked Tonia if she was hungry and she said she was. Robert got Tonia’s water ready and made a bacon and egg sandwich for her. After he finished cooking Robert washed the dishes and proceeded to do the daily task, he does each day. Once Robert was done with the daily stuff he decided to type for a while before beginning with his more involved task of the day. Robert decided to clean Tonia’s son’s bedroom and bathroom. Robert straightened up the bedroom so he could vacuum and then change the bed linen. Robert then cleaned the bathroom where he scrubbed the tub, toilet, and floor. Robert wanted to make sure the bathroom was really good since they would have company this coming weekend which the bathroom might be used by guests. As Robert cleaned and stayed busy his ribs would be sore and his mind would wander like it always did no matter how busy he tried to stay. When Robert was done, he went by his parent’s house to take a bag of stuff that he didn’t need and was taking up space. Robert asked his dad if he had a pressure washer while he was there and his dad said he did, Robert asked if he could use it. His dad said of course, and they loaded it in the car. Robert cooked dinner around 1630 hours so it would be done by 1700 hours. Dinner needed to be done early since there was a soccer game. After eating they rushed to the park to get to the game on time. Tuesday, 9/26/2023, the day started the same with the walk to school but Robert and Tonia did not walk the neighborhood since Tonia had an early meeting she had to prepare for. Robert got the water ready but didn’t make breakfast since Tonia wasn’t hungry. The daily tasks were done. Robert decided to clean the hardwood floors and his and Tonia’s bedroom and bathroom today. Robert also finally found a place to hang the remaining Halloween decorations that he had been looking for a spot for the past few days. Robert borrowed his dad’s pressure washer, so he decided to get started on the driveway and walkway. Robert was able to get the driveway pressure washed and half of the walkway before it was 1700 hours and he had to go make dinner. Robert’s ribs and bones were bothering him today which had him not feeling well but he still managed to get everything done that he wanted. Robert cooked dinner and the three of them ate together once Tonia was off work since there was no soccer game. Wednesday, 9/27/2023, Robert and Tonia walked to school and went on their neighborhood walk. While walking Tonia asked Robert trivia questions which some, they did not know which were interesting facts. Robert got the water ready and cooked breakfast when they got home while Tonia took a shower and got ready for work. Just like the past two days Robert knocked out the daily tasks that he enjoys doing and then decided to organize some of the cabinets. Robert emptied the food cabinet to wipe it out and put everything back in an order that would help them know what they had and was easy to access when they needed to get it. Robert finished pressure washing the front walkway and did the back patio. Robert did not cook dinner since there was a bunch of leftovers in the fridge that they could heat up and eat before the soccer game. Thursday, 9/28/2023, the morning routine went the same as the day prior. Once Robert got the water, made breakfast, and did the daily cleaning he chose to organize the spice cabinet and clean all the stainless-steel appliances (oven, refrigerator, and dishwasher). Robert did laundry since soccer was done for the week and his and Tonia’s laundry basket was full. Robert typed for a bit while laundry was going and when it was finished, he folded and put everything away except for Tonia’s son’s clothes which were set on his bed for him to put away. Robert made dinner and they ate together while watching TV. On Friday, 9/29/2023, Robert cooked breakfast and wanted to clean the kitchen and living room for the weekend. Robert wiped down the cabinets, baseboards, and door frames before he swept and mopped. Robert wiped the baseboards and door frames in the living room as well before he swept and mopped in there. Once Tonia’s son got home from school Robert told him to ride with him to his parents’ so he could take the pressure washer back to his dad. That evening they went to the valley to watch her cousin’s boys play soccer since they both had a game. Tonia’s son asked if he could stay the night at their house and Tonia said he could. The next morning on Saturday, 9/30/2023, Robert and Tonia got up early to go to the park to do REC and then go by the store for groceries they needed. When they got home, they worked on some Halloween crafts and watched college football until Angel and Don showed up. Sunday, 10/1/2023, Robert and Tonia relaxed and continued to work on the Halloween crafts that they did not finish yesterday. Tonia’s brother stopped by with his wife and child and Tonia’s cousin brought her son back home.

### Robert had a decent week

Robert had a decent week and was able to stay busy each day as he planned but his thoughts were still the same, which was the most aggravating part. Robert questioned his importance each day and tried to see that he was helping out but the stuff he was doing to help really didn’t matter, he thought. Robert had a few spells of drifting off thinking about how he was a burden and a waste of space in the house since he was not carrying what he thought was an acceptable amount of the living load. Robert seems to think he doesn’t live life since he can’t do everything he wants to do and that he just exists. When Robert is doing what he thinks can help take some stuff off of Tonia he usually messes up and adds more stress to her life when she already has enough stress from her job. Robert has thoughts of Tonia being better off if he was not in the picture but he loves her and wants to be with her so he wants her to want him, but he knows it is difficult since he is going through a lot of stuff and half of its Robert cannot explain. Robert would totally understand if Tonia wanted out so she would not have to worry or take on more than she already has. Robert asks Tonia if her feelings have changed, and she always says they have not, which Robert knows but the thoughts have him questioning everything. The constant asking gets on Tonia’s nerves and she starts questioning why Robert always asks and if she is doing something that has him thinking that way. Robert tells her it is definitely him and he is sorry. At times it seems like it would be so much easier if it was just Robert so he would not impact so many lives in a negative way. Robert has to stay focused on the end and know everything will work out if he can just manage this while it is going on. Robert wants to be with Tonia and does not want something he cannot control to affect them or their relationship. Hopefully next week it will be better, and he can stay even keeled to prevent any unnecessary issues from his thoughts.
