---
title: 'The three weeks following the second treatment'
description: 'That evening upon returning Robert, his girlfriend, and his dad decorated for the birthday party that was planned for tomorrow'
pubDate: 'Sep 23 2023'
heroImage: '/wild-fire.jpg'
---

### Treatment affects everyone

After Robert’s second appointment on Friday, August 25, 2023, he returned to his parent’s house in Aiken with his girlfriend and mother. That evening upon returning Robert, his girlfriend, and his dad decorated for the birthday party that was planned for tomorrow. Robert was starting to feel ill as he sat blowing up balloons. Robert did not want to start complaining about anything because he did not want his girlfriend to cancel the party for any reason especially due to him. Robert was already feeling bad about being sick and preventing his girlfriend’s son from having a big party. Robert and his girlfriend discussed birthday party ideas leading up to this weekend. His girlfriend was initially talking about a party at a city park with a waterslide and a bunch of her son’s friends but then once she realized Robert’s immune system was degraded and his body was unable to protect him against germs and infections, she was swaying towards not having a birthday party at all. Robert understood her reasoning, but he did not want to be the reason her son could not enjoy his birthday like a 9-year-old should. After going back and forth with different ideas they both decided on having a small birthday party at Robert’s parent’s house with some family. Robert and his girlfriend thought if it was only family then they would know if a family member was sick or not and they also knew if a family member felt sick, they knew the circumstances and would not risk Robert’s health. So, the dining room was decorated for the small family party. Robert continued to think about how his current condition was affecting everyone around him in every way. Robert thought nothing was the same as he kept sitting in the chair blowing up balloons and handing them to his dad. Robert knew he did have much choice with how he was feeling and how the chemotherapy drugs affected his body. As Robert finished with the balloons, he grabbed a few stringers and hung them from the fans. Robert’s girlfriend and dad did most of the decorating but Robert wanted to do what he could so he could at least feel like he contributed a little. Robert and his girlfriend headed home once the decorating was done. Robert was not feeling horrible, but he was feeling soreness in his bones along with starting to feel nauseated. As soon as they arrived home Robert took a shower and was ready to lay down.

Robert was still coughing bad as he was trying to fall asleep, but he was eventually able to drift off to sleep. Robert woke up early Sunday morning feeling pain in his ribs and was salivating bad as he came to. Robert sat up for a moment and once he was awake, he realized where he was, and he needed to get to the bathroom. Robert rushed to the bathroom and sat on the floor in front of the toilet. His mouth kept salivating as he kept spitting into the toilet until he eventually threw up. Robert took his shirt off since he was feeling hot and clammy as he usually did when he started throwing up. Robert finished and glanced at his watch to see it was only 0340 hours. Robert decided to just sit in the bathroom floor for a few minutes before getting up and brushing his teeth. After Robert brushed his teeth, he thought about laying back down, but his ribs were hurting to bad, so he decided to just go sit on the couch. While on the couch Robert kept coughing continuously. Each time Robert coughed his ribs hurt more and more. Last week Robert felt the pain on his left side as he coughed but this week, he was starting to feel the pain on his right side. The pain was bad, but Robert was more concerned with how loud he thought he was being as he could not stop coughing. Robert did not want to wake up his girlfriend or her son with his uncontrollable coughing, so he got up and walked to the laundry room each time he felt a cough coming. Robert did not do much today because he could not get feeling well at all. Robert thought it was going to be a rough week because it was starting off exactly like it did after his first treatment. Robert still wanted to do stuff and try to be as active as possible, but he would have to wait on his body to be able to do basic movements before he could do any type of activity. The first week following the treatment was horrible. Robert woke up each morning around 0230 hours or 0300 hours having to throw up and could never go back to sleep so he would just go sit on the couch and wait for 0620 hours when his girlfriend’s son would wake up for school. Robert was exhausted and fatigued from the chemotherapy and he was also tired from not being able to sleep but he knew he still had to do something so he could not just lay around the house all day. Robert talked with his girlfriend’s son as he would be eating and getting ready for school. Robert tried to make sure everything was done, and he was ready to go to school before waking his girlfriend up at 0700 hours. After Robert’s girlfriend was up, she would get ready and the three of them would walk to school together at 0715 hours. On most mornings after walking her son to school her and Robert would walk around the neighborhood to get some steps early in the morning. Robert enjoyed the walks and they seemed to help his bones feel less sore, but he was still coughing which was making it difficult to breath. By the end of the first week Robert’s right side was killing him and always felt extremely sore no matter what type of movement he did. Robert felt the worst pain if he was trying to sit up from a laying position or bending over at the waist. Robert knew he had to try to be more active than he was last time after his treatment.

### Robert takes his mind for a walk

Each day Robert tried to walk some no matter how he felt. Robert thought if he could make himself walk, he would work on his endurance and build up his strength to go longer distances as he conditioned his weak fatigued body. Robert went walking each day and he would walk until he got tired or just could not go any further. On some days his bones would hurt, on other days he would have to stop because of his coughing and inability to breath, and some days he was just overall not feeling well with a little bit of everything bothering him. When Robert walked, he listened to music and would just try to process all kinds of things. Robert would think about what he was doing which was always a negative thought because he wasn’t doing much of anything and he was barely able to make himself walk. Robert thought about where he would be with school if he did not have to take a leave of absence. Robert would try to think of anything he could do for work during this time, but he could never think of anything because he was unable to do anything physical and his ability to use his brain was not a constant as it used to be. Robert was so disappointed with himself because he just wanted to work to make money and get back in a routine of some kind to make his life feel like it was worth something. The more Robert walked the more he thought so on some days Robert walked 10 or more miles just to try to find answers. Robert never was able to find any answers, but he did shed some tears and burn calories, so the walks were not a total waste. Robert could not understand the reason for this cancer to grab ahold of him and change his life. As hard as he tried to process and understand the why of the situation, he could not come to any conclusion for it. The more he thought about it he wondered if the why even mattered since he was already sick and there was no magic pill or overnight solution. Robert kept going for walks to get exercise and let his mind wander freely.

The second week after the second treatment was starting to have a little positive since he was not feeling as nauseated every day and his bones seemed to be not as painful since he has been getting more exercise than he did after his first treatment. This small achievement made Robert feel good about himself since he was able to make himself do something that made a difference with how he felt. Robert could not control the cancer, but it seemed like he could control his body to how it would react to the chemotherapy drugs. As Robert was starting to figure out a little bit about the physical effects, he was losing ground on the mental effects. Robert continued to walk to keep up the endurance and hope to get to a position where he could have a day, he did not feel fatigued or tired. Robert tried to stop thinking about stuff he could not control as he walked and tried to quiz himself on different subjects to keep his mind sharp. The quizzes did not go well at all. Robert was trying to keep up his knowledge and memory, but it was a very tasking for him to quiz himself when he had difficulty remembering information. Robert would have inner battles with himself over all sorts of things. Robert would wake up feeling one way and before getting out of bed he would feel different and then by the time he got to the bathroom to brush his teeth he would be in a different mood. This was mentally exhausting to Robert because he was trying to stay composed and not make everything an issue since he was always feeling bad enough about being a worthless burden on everyone around him. Robert thought he was staying composed because he could not see the situation from any angle besides his and he did not have his normal processing ability to read people or know how he was being perceived by others. Robert would just try to hide his pain and go through the day saying and doing whatever not paying attention to the people around him. Robert paid attention but was not able to focus on what was important and actually happening. Robert’s mind was in and out of clarity making it hard for him to be constant and plan as he spoke. This might sound weird because it is extremely weird to Robert, but he used to be able to speak as if it was a chess match, meaning if Robert said one thing, he would most likely know the response and already have something as a reply since the conversation was meant to go a certain way from the start. For example, if Robert wanted to go out to eat but wasn’t sure where right away, he would ask if the person wanted to go eat somewhere, the most likely answer would be yes and while that person was responding Robert would be thinking of where he wanted to eat to complete the conversation, then Robert would say how about Mexican. That simple conversation which is the very basic is now a lost cause to Robert while his mind is all jumbled with the inability to process in the moment. Robert was encouraged by figuring out a small piece of the physical aspect but is slowly being discouraged by his mind since it is being affected in ways, he has absolutely no control over. Robert started to think of ways that he could try and train his mind to ignore the wishy-washy thoughts that would enter at the most random times for no reason. Of course, Robert could not figure out any special trick so he would have to deal with his nonsense form of speaking for the time being.

### Robert sees the treatments affecting his mind

Robert knew he was not himself in more ways than one but could never tell when his mind would be different from one moment to another. Robert was not able to express his feelings the way he wanted to, and he was also unable to express the way he felt with words, so his personal life was being affected. It has never been a question how much Robert loves his girlfriend and her son. They both have brought so much joy to his life and his girlfriend never once questioned being with him even when she found out his diagnosis. Robert has given her an out many times, but she never wanted out, she just wanted to care for Robert and love him through this difficult time. Robert knows this, he truly does but when he is not able to process information or is unable to think clearly, he makes dumb decisions which have consequences no matter if he has cancer or not. Robert says and does things on a daily basis that might not be the best thing to say or do that makes his girlfriend upset. Robert usually does like to aggravate but knows when to and when not to so these times that make his girlfriend upset is not on purpose. Especially if it has her doubting Robert’s feelings towards her. Robert gets sad when he thinks about her having those thoughts because she is amazing and deserves to be loved and know that she is loved. Robert loves her without question, but he knows he has made mistakes and poor decisions that would lead her to that thinking but he wants her to always know that is not him and he would never do anything to hurt her. Robert thinks he would rather have all the physical pain and nausea than having this mental issue that is messing with his mind. Robert tries to explain what he is experiencing or going through, but it is hard to tell someone that you don’t have control over mind without sounding crazy.

Robert decided to take a trip to the mountains during the beginning of his third week to gather his thoughts and try to continue to look for the impossible answers he has been searching for. While in the mountains Robert turned his phone off and went hiking letting his mind wander and see what he could find being in a place he enjoyed and felt peaceful. Robert wants to be the best man possible which he always strived for. Robert has always had a great example with his father for his entire life along with several mentors that entered his life along the way that has helped him in so many ways to be a better human. Robert at the core knows who he is and that he is a great person but maintaining that without getting lost in everything that is going on is the most difficult part. In the end Robert can only do what he can while he is having so much affecting him. Robert was able to clear his head and get a little bit of perspective on his entire situation. Robert did not really like it but not being in control he was just along for the ride and hoping at the end he will return to himself to provide his girlfriend with a wonderful life and be able to continue helping others as he enjoyed prior to him starting this temporary journey. Robert stayed in the mountains for four days before returning home.

### Of course it would be, why not?

Once Robert returned back to Aiken his deep constant cough seemed to lighten up, but his right side was still causing him pain if he had to use his core for any type of movement. Robert also started feeling a sharp stabbing pain on the right side of his chest in the area of his port. Robert sent a message to the nurse to ask if he should have any pain at his port sight and to also ask if there should be a reason his port is still scabbed and not fully healed after 5 weeks. The nurse called Robert and asked him exactly what was going on with his port. Robert explained the pain he was feeling and how it was always scabbed. The nurse asked Robert if he could email her a photograph of the port site. Robert advised he could. Robert took a photo of his port and emailed to the email address the nurse provided. Robert thought it is always something. Last time towards the end of the three weeks before the next treatment Robert started coughing and know he was having an issue with his port. Robert could not catch a break anywhere with anything. The following day Robert received a phone call from the nurse who stated she was concerned his port was infected. Robert said of course it would be, why not. Robert read the previous night that only 2 percent of ports get infected, and his luck would put him on that 2 percent. The nurse asked Robert if he could come to Charleston tomorrow, Friday, September 15, 2023, Robert said he could not. The nurse told Robert his port could be infected and if it was not taken out, he could get a blood infection that could kill him. Robert stated he understood but told the nurse he had a schedule trip to Florida for his girlfriend’s work. The nurse advised Robert he needed to come to Charleston, Robert said he could not. The nurse had the radiologist call Robert to explain the possible consequences for keeping an infected port in. Robert explained that his girlfriend had a planned work trip to San Marco Island in Florida for a 30th year anniversary and it was important. The radiologist stated he understood but wanted Robert to know the possible consequences to his decision. Robert thanked him for calling and said he would be there first thing Monday, September 18, 2023, morning. The radiologist said they would check the port before he goes to his other appointments that morning.
