---
title: 'Receiving the News'
description: After Robert's visit to the emergency room
pubDate: 'Sept 01 2023'
heroImage: '/blog-placeholder-4.jpg'
---

## After the Emergency Room visit

After Robert’s visit to the emergency room, he tried to return to his daily life routine, which consisted of working part time and going to school. Robert was able to manage but he was in pain most of the time from his abdomen. Robert thought about what could be done to help his pain being caused by an enlarged spleen, nothing came to mind because he did not know if it would reduce in size on its own or if medication would have to be taken. Life goes on so Robert just dealt with his current situation and just hoped the doctors would be able to figure something out.

Robert explained his pain to his instructors at school to see if maybe they had an idea or possibly seen this type of thing before. Robert’s program of study was surgical technology so both the instructors were definitely familiar with human anatomy and organs. The instructors knew Robert was in pain because he was having difficulty standing and breathing while in lab. They would always ask if he was okay, Robert would advise he was as he dropped to a knee to try and reduce the pain and catch his breath. This type of thing happened on a daily basis while in lab. The instructors said the spleen could shrink on its own, but it would depend on what caused the inflammation to begin with. The instructors asked what all test the doctors ran to try and find a solution. Robert told them bloodwork, ultrasound, CT scan, and a biopsy. Both instructors asked if he had received any information or results from the visit, he stated he had not heard anything yet. Approximately two weeks after the biopsy was taken Robert received a phone call while at school from Ralph Johnson Hospital. Robert answered his phone and walked out of the classroom, a female voice asked to speak with Robert. Robert advised it was him, the female introduced herself and advised the results were back from pathology.

## The doctor asked Robert to come in to the office

The doctor asked Robert if he was able to come in sometime today, which was June 28, 2023, or sometime during the week. Robert could have made time to go to the hospital at the doctor’s request, but he did not want to wait to receive the news, so he said he was unable to make it downtown to the hospital. The doctor asked if he wanted to receive the results over the phone, Robert said that would be fine. Robert had a feeling the results were going to be bad because the doctor’s voice changed to a softer tone or empathetic tone. The doctor proceeded to explain that the biopsy from the tissue of the lump on the left side of the neck showed abnormal cells and the cells appeared to be malignant causing them to multiply and spread. Robert started getting teary eyed as the information was being told to him, but a breakdown could not happen because he was standing in the hallway at school. Robert took some deep breaths as he was acknowledging what the doctor was saying to try and stay calm and process the devastating news he was being told. The doctor continued and said an appointment needed to be made with oncology to get a treatment plan in place as soon as possible to try and stop the damage before it gets worse. Robert stated he understood, and the doctor told him that he would be receiving a call from the oncologist to set up the appointment.

The call was ended, and Robert wiped his face and eyes before walking back into the classroom to try and appear as nothing happened. As soon as Robert walked through the door the instructor asked if he was alright, Robert was a bit choked up so he could not answer but he turned around and walked back into the hallway. The instructor followed him out and asked if he wanted to step into the office for a moment. Robert nodded his head yes as he was starting to shed some tears. Robert was trying not to talk because he had the cry voice but given the news, he just received he had a reason to cry or do whatever he needed to do to get the information processed and move on from this horrible moment. The date receiving this life changing news was also not the greatest because it was Robert’s 40th birthday. In the office Robert cried for a minute and didn’t understand why this was happening but he decided he would have to worry about that later. Robert needed to finish the day without missing any classroom information and complete his lab practical, so he did not fall behind. After a few minutes Robert exited the office and returned to the classroom.

## Life goes on?

Robert took his seat and opened up his notebook to continue taking notes on the lecture as he was doing before receiving the phone call. Robert’s mind was racing for the rest of the day, but he was able to finish the day without missing anything. Upon arriving home Robert took a shower and just wanted to lay down. He was mentally exhausted and kind of wanted this day to be over. Robert received a phone call from Ralph Johnson Hospital once again and when he answered it was the oncology department. An appointment was made for next week to go in to have some test, labs, and discussion with the oncologist to see what the next course of action would be depending on the type of cancer Robert was suffering from. Robert thought about how he was so concerned about turning 40. Robert was stressing his 40th birthday months prior just because he always thought 40 years old was old when he was younger and now, he was turning 40. Robert’s 40th birthday will always be a rememberable one to him not from an awesome party or a great gift but from his life changing because he received the news of having cancer cells in his body that needed to be addressed quickly. The news was bad but at least it was received, and it explained Robert’s symptoms he was suffering from that was causing him so much pain.
