---
title: Robert's search for normal
description: 'After Robert received the first treatment he felt different as soon as he was done'
pubDate: 'Sep 21 2023'
heroImage: '/blog-placeholder-2.jpg'
---

### Robert knows normal is out there

As Robert attended all his appointments leading up to the first chemotherapy appointment, he knew life would be different, but he really did not have a clue about how it would change. Robert always knew the diagnosis was serious, but he tried to stay in good spirits by not thinking about it. Prior to receiving his first treatment Robert just had a lump on the left side of his neck which really did not bother him in any way besides the appearance. Robert did have abdomen pain as he has mentioned in previous post that was a constant reminder that something was wrong and at times the pain was so excruciating it was difficult to ignore. As the abdomen pain started affecting his day-to-day life, he just adjusted what he would do to prevent the pain or pay attention to what caused the pain and stop doing whatever it was that made the pain worse. Robert dealt with it as he was going to school and attending all the hospital visits leading up to the appointment, which he was most scared of was the initial treatment. The day of August 3, 2023, arrived and the chemotherapy appointment was completed. The unknown was now known but the total reaction and effect on Robert’s body and mind was yet to be seen. Robert read about chemotherapy before the treatment but with each article it was always said the overall effect depends on the patient’s body as an individual so although the article would contain good information Robert was unsure if it would relate to him or if he would experience the same thing. The scariest part with most of this journey to this point is not knowing but Robert would soon have some of those answers since the chemotherapy drugs were know traveling through his body trying to kill cancer cells and shrink the lymph nodes. The chemotherapy drugs were good at doing what they are supposed to do to help the patient with the cancer but at what cost. Robert knew what his life was like prior to having these drugs introduced to his body and he was incredible at being in touch with his body and knowing what he needed along with what to do if something felt off to keep him in good health. With the feeling that was felt just after the first appointment was done, Robert could tell he would have to find a new normal while he was having treatments. Robert only knew his old normal, so he was thinking he is about to be lost and searching for something but really wasn’t sure what he was searching for.

### The BC Era

To see how Robert’s search for normal would go we need to know the normal Robert was leaving behind because his body and mind would not allow him to be the same person, he was just a few days ago. Robert was always extremely active by working full-time, going to school, and going to the gym. Robert always worked since he was 17 years old, so he had no issues with knowing what had to be done to make life happen. It was simple to Robert because he knew if he wanted nice things then he had to work to make money to afford those things and of course to pay the bills to have necessities such as a place to live, car, insurance, cell phone, gas, groceries, and clothes. Robert’s grandpa would always tell him to go make a buck which was short and to the point of telling him he had to work. Most of Robert’s career was spent in law enforcement which kept him physically active and also kept his mind sharp to keep up with state laws and city ordinances. Robert was also very good with dealing with people by his demeanor and communication. After 15 years Robert decided to change career paths to better himself and expand his knowledge. Robert loves stress and attention to detail so he searched the medical field which he was interested in but knew he did not want to be a nurse because he was wanting to get away from dealing with people on a daily basis. Robert looked into a few career fields within the medical professions and ultimately decided on a certified surgical technologist. This career path would allow him to still experience stress on a daily basis and his attention to detail would help him by being able to keep up with the many instruments and procedure steps he would be required to know. Robert enrolled in school to pursue an associate degree in surgical technology. Robert kept working full-time while going to school up until he was going to have to start going to lab. Once that time came Robert decided to quit his law enforcement career and focus on school. This happened in October 2022. Robert went to the gym every morning before school to run between 4 to 10 miles and lift weights to stay in shape since he was not as active with a full-time job and was having to sit in a classroom for 6 hours a day. This became Robert’s new routine which was fine because he was still active, and his mind was steadily engaged learning new material for his new career which he was excited about. Robert made the Dean’s list each semester for a year and a half. Robert was always confident in his abilities and his knowledge; he never had any problems grasping on to new material that he didn’t know because he wanted to learn and was willing to put the work in to get the results he wanted. Robert would do house chores with ease and yard work was always relaxing to him because he enjoyed being outside. In December 2022, Robert went to Aiken to visit his parent’s and while there he met up with someone, he always cared for but the time they first met was in high school and life happened quick so contact was lost until this visit. Robert knew when he was able to reconnect that it was something special and she made him feel happy. She was such an amazing person. Robert thought she was beautiful, smart, driven, compassionate, and had a truly good soul. Robert wasn’t sure if he would have the opportunity to show her how he felt because he was living in Charleston but after spending a week with her Robert told her he would come visit every weekend. This changed Robert’s routine once again, but this was definitely for the better. Robert would continue to go to the gym every morning and then to school Monday through Friday but now he would travel to Aiken after school on Friday’s and return Sunday. Robert was finally piecing together his life as he approached the age of 40. Robert was always happy because he had everything falling into place. All in all, Robert lived a pretty normal life. Robert was always calm and did not let anything bother him because he knew if the little things get to you, you would constantly be bothered by something rather if it was important or not. Robert was never super emotional because he was so used to being neutral no matter the situation he was put into. Robert’s previous experiences allowed him to view society on many different levels and interact with different types of people that helped him understand people’s way of thinking in certain situations. Robert was always telling the guys that worked under him to try and be the same way because when someone calls the police its usually not their best day, but they could be the best person having a bad day. This is mostly what molded Robert’s personality which he didn’t mind but it is a different way of thinking and approaching problems, but it worked for him. This is how Robert lived leading up to June 2023.

The first hiccup was the pain he started experiencing in his abdomen which started this entire thing. If you have read the previous posts, you know what Robert went through getting to his first chemotherapy appointment and completing the appointment. Robert was starting to figure out how his body would react to the drugs and the part he was dreading was happening. Robert wanted to maintain his normal but knew that would probably not be possible. Robert took a leave of absence from school because he was completed with classroom curriculum and just had to complete his clinicals to graduate. Robert knew that he would not be able to complete the clinicals based on his chemotherapy schedule so that was the first piece of normal that fell away. Robert moved back to Aiken to work at Doctor’s Hospital in Augusta, GA for those clinicals which he was now not able to do. The move to Aiken was wonderful but it would require change as well. The first three weeks between Robert’s first treatment and second treatment would bring a lot of change compared to what he was used to. This search for the new normal started August 3, 2023, and will continue until the end if he is able to find anything close to normal.

### New feelings

The day after the treatment Robert woke up in the middle of the night feeling horrible and throwing up. This was a new feeling to Robert because he seldom got sick any time before this. Robert did not feel like eating even though he felt hungry. That was a strange feeling to be hungry but not want to eat. His stomach was upset, and he had a constant feeling of nausea even after taking the prescribed Zofran. Robert had pain in his long bones, his femurs were burning and felt like sharp scratching pain. Robert knew his immune system was shot and his body was more acceptable to catch a sickness because the chemo drugs have degraded his blood cells that would usually be able to assist with fighting off infections. Robert was tired all day even though he was not doing anything. Robert’s body was going through changes during the first few days following the treatment, but the length of the changes was not known or if it would remain the same, he was currently feeling during this whole journey. All the physical changes affected Robert’s thinking along with his mood because he was totally removed from his active lifestyle he was so used to. As the days went by Robert kept feeling sick and nauseated with the sore bones that still had the feeling of the scratching pain. Robert had pain medication prescribed to him but he did not want to rely on it because he wanted his body to adjust and adapt to the feeling so he could proceed to falling into a routine that would help him stay mentally and physically normal. Robert did what he could during these first few weeks, but it wasn’t much. While Robert was trying to find a normal routine, he was thinking about what he was achieving on a daily basis which was absolutely nothing. Robert was always thinking about all the help he was receiving from his parent’s and his girlfriend, but he could do nothing to repay them. Robert’s parents allowed him to stay at their house while his girlfriend was feeling under the weather. Robert did not pay rent or buy groceries but yet he stayed with them using water and electricity along with eating meals. Robert had a constant battle in his head about his situation which would change his mood after he got upset or mad at himself for his current position in life based on choices he has made throughout his life. Robert tried to do dishes, clean the kitchen, help out around the house to make him feel better but it didn’t work. Robert returned home with his girlfriend where he struggled with the same battle about his contribution to the household. Robert woke up most mornings feeling sick but knew he had to get it together because he could not just lay around. His girlfriend wanted Robert to rest or lay around, but Robert could not. Robert wanted to do stuff and help out as much as possible but a lot of times his body would not let him do everything he wanted to do. Robert cleaned, cooked, helped with homework, and did yard work to try to be useful. These tasks were petty and really did nothing. Robert’s girlfriend was always helping him with products that would help him with certain problems he was having like the metallic taste, ability to taste food when he eats, and sleeping. Each problem she found a solution and purchased it without hesitation. Robert was so appreciative, but he felt bad because he was not working and had no source of income, so he felt like he was falling into debt with her. Robert’s girlfriend did not think this way at all which Robert knew but for some reason Robert kept thinking about it even though it didn’t matter. Robert was no longer happy all the time because he let his thoughts and how he was feeling change his mood. Robert was truly happy and wanted to express his happiness so others around would know and not be affected by his mood changes for no apparent reason. So as Robert was not able to do much physical activity, he was also having trouble keeping his mind in order since each little thing seemed to affect him in some way. This was totally not how Robert wanted to be and he has never been this way before, so he did not know how to act. Robert and his girlfriend usually mesh perfectly together but Robert not being able to control his mind or thoughts makes it difficult at times which is not fair to his girlfriend because she is always thoughtful and caring. This leads to Robert having more thoughts about how he is not being the man he knows he is, but he has no idea how to be that man at this current time. Robert is always having to apologize because he knows he is wrong with his decisions recently. Robert’s ability to talk or explain himself has been altered because his slow processing and lack of words. Robert might have a thought while he is trying to speak, some of the thought dissipates leaving him to say whatever is in his head. This is not the way Robert is used to communicating. Robert is usually great at knowing what he is going to say and choosing the correct words to get the meaning across as he intended. With the current cloudiness it makes each part of communicating more difficult than ever because the tone is wrong, delivery is wrong, and the words are wrong. In three weeks, Robert has been unable to balance anything long alone try to find a new normal. Robert has been unable to get close to anything normal for himself, but he is starting to affect other people’s normal since he is a man with tons of problems and can’t assist with anything. Each day Robert thinks of how inconvenient his presence is, he isn’t trying to be in any way but as he thinks about everything his mind always determines he is. His mind makes him feel useless and not relevant which is detrimental to Robert considering he used to be so useful to everyone he came into contact with. Robert has done his best to provide good moral direction for each person who needed help to guide them in the right way to allow them to be a better person and Robert also kept his eyes open during these interactions so he could take away stuff to make him a better person as well. Definitely not the way Robert sees his life at this time. Robert just wants to be the man he knows he is without all the cloudiness, forgetfulness, mood swings, inter battles with himself, and inability to express his true feelings. Robert can deal with the pain and nausea all day long, but he cannot deal with the aspects that have a direct effect on other people that he is having issues controlling. It is hard to explain, and Robert can never get the words in order to project what he is feeling that causes him to be different. Robert can only hope as time goes by; he will eventually get rid of the jumbled mess that is invading his head so he can think clearly. Robert has no reason to be mad, upset, disappointed, or sad at his cancer because it is here, and he must travel the course to the end.

Robert still wonders why but does it matter. Robert has always helped people get through their issues when he was needed without question or judgement. Robert thought he could always solve any issue when it was for someone else, but he never knew how he would be with his own issues. As Robert thinks about his current head space, he thinks about if someone came to him with the exact issue he was struggling with. Is there an answer if you have no way of controlling the way thoughts enter and are interpreted by a brain you are not used to dealing with. This will continue to be a battle to Robert until he is able to figure out a solution to filter the thoughts, ignore the thoughts, or just go with the thoughts until he is clear headed. Robert will try different tactics to proceed as he goes through this chapter in his life, but he does not want this chapter to change the chapters that are to come after he gets through this. Robert’s life has written a pretty good book thus far and it is hard for him to believe that one bad chapter could ruin his life story. Robert is thankful for his great parents through his entire life and through this obstacle. Robert is also thankful for his amazing girlfriend that has to put up with his ridiculousness on a daily basis but still loves him just as much as she did before. Robert has family members that care and love him through this that check on him on a regular basis. Each person helps Robert. Robert’s main push besides himself is his person @–}—-. Robert knows he might not be acting like himself during this, but he knows he is the same person within that will not change.

### Robert refuses to give up

These weeks following the first treatment did not help Robert locate a new normal, but he will not stop searching. Robert is determined to get this in order to get his mind, memory, and body back under his control. Robert will see what the next three weeks bring after his second treatment that will be on August 25, 2023. This is the day after his lab and nurse appointment due to a staffing shortage at the infusion center. Robert is scheduled to do labs and see the doctor on Thursday, August 24, 2023, and get his chemotherapy Friday, August 25, 2023. Robert can only hope it will get better but out of his control time will tell.
