---
title: 'Third week after third treatment'
description: 'a month closer to being done with treatments'
pubDate: 'Oct 10, 2023'
heroImage: 'blog-placeholder-2.jpg'
---

### The third week

The third week started on Monday, October 2, 2023, Robert was glad it was already October, and he was a month closer to being done with treatments. Robert’s third week on previous treatments have come with unexpected issues or concerns that affected his health when he should be feeling the best during the three weeks before going in for treatment to start the cycle over. The first third week Robert was hampered by a constant cough that ultimately led to five fractured ribs. The second third week there was an issue with his port that had to be looked at and he had to be put on an antibiotic. Robert was hoping nothing would arise during this week because he was not feeling too bad besides the pain on his right side from the ribs that have not healed completely yet. Robert was happy he was feeling decent especially since it was the first week of fall break and his son would be out of school for the next two weeks. Robert wanted to do stuff and spend time with him since the past few months have not been the greatest for being able to do stuff. Robert still wanted to get certain things done around the house that needed to be done and that he wanted to do, which would be easier now that he had help. Robert decided to pick two things that they could complete together each day and then they would go check on Navi followed by a trip to the park and something else to pass time until 1700 hours when Tonia would get off of work.

### Roberts Monday & Tuesday

Monday, 10/2/2023, Robert and the family woke up at 0700 hours to go on a morning walk to get some steps before they each start their day. After a walk around the neighborhood upon returning Tonia got ready for work and Robert and Jax sat in the living room. Jax watched a Spiderman movie and Robert typed for a bit after making breakfast. Robert planned on going through Jax’s dresser drawers to clean and organize them to help him know what clothes he had. The second thing was to organize the bookshelf in Jax’s room. Robert and Jax started on the tasks around 1030 hours. The dresser was emptied, and the clothes were gone through then they both folded the clothes to put back in the dresser with each article of clothing having its own drawer. After the dresser was completed Jax took all the books off his bookshelf while Robert went to get a rag to wipe it down. Jax asked if he could wipe it down, Robert said of course and handed him the rag while he started looking at the books on the floor. Robert and Jax both put the books back on the bookshelf according to size and type of book. These two tasks did not take long, and they were done by 1230 hours. Robert and Jax then left the house to go check on Navi. Once all the tasks were done it was time to do something fun, so Robert asked Jax if he wanted to go to the park, he said yeah. Robert took Jax to the park so he could play and enjoy the fall weather, or supposed to be fall weather it still feels slightly summerish as it usually does in South Carolina. Robert walked the half-track that circled the playground where Jax was playing so he could keep an eye on him while he walked. Robert felt good while walking and his pesky cough was at a minimum, so he was not having any real difficulties. When Jax was done playing he let Robert know so they could leave. They still had a little bit of time before 1700 hours, but they needed to be back earlier today because Jax had a soccer game and had to get ready while Robert prepared leftovers for dinner. Robert wanted to take Jax by the Halloween store since he was at his cousin’s house last Saturday when he and Tonia went. So, Robert took him so he could see the cool stuff on display since he enjoys Halloween just as much as his mother. That evening Robert’s legs were a bit sore from walking, but he had taken a break from long walks, so it was just his body adjusting. The next day Tuesday, 10/3/2023, after the family morning walk Tonia got ready for work, Jax watched TV, and Robert wanted to finish some can ghost that Tonia was working on, so she did not have to finish them when she got off work. Around 1000 hours Robert and Jax started working on organizing the garage since that was the task of the day. They took everything out that was on the ground so it could be swept. They both helped pick places for items that would maximize open space. Once stuff was moved, shifted, and hung the garage was swept one more time and they were done. After they finished, they went to check on Navi and onto the fun part of the day. They went back to the park so Jax could play with the other kids since there were a bunch there this week because school was out. When Jax was done playing he told Robert he was ready to go. Jax asked if they could stop by the gas station for a slushie, which sounded good, but Robert said even better and asked if he wanted to get ice cream. Jax said yes, so they went to the ice cream shoppe to get a well-deserved treat. Jax picked blue cotton candy and watermelon as his two ice cream flavors which Robert thought was strange, but he ate it and said it was good. More traditional flavors Robert had pistachio and birthday cake ice cream. When they both finished their ice cream they returned home. Robert made taco meat for dinner so Jax could have tacos and Tonia and him could have Dorito salad.

### Just another day

On Wednesday, 10/4/2023, there was no morning walk so Tonia got up for work and Robert got up with her, but they let Jax sleep in. Robert had "rake leaves" and "organize Jax’s closet" on the to do chart for today. Robert did all the daily tasks while waiting for the sun to come up a bit before heading outside to start raking. Jax woke up around 0830 hours and walked to the kitchen as he did most mornings to get something to eat. Jax asked Robert if him and his mom went for a walk this morning, Robert told him they did not. Jax grabbed a bag of muffins and asked what time they were going to start in the yard, Robert told him 1000 hours. Robert wanted it to be done on or before noon because he planned the night before to go get Jax’s cousin to go to the park with him today since she was also out of school. Robert and Jax started raking the front yard right on schedule. Each of them started on a different section of the yard and raked the leaves in their area into piles. As Jax raked he would say it’s not going to take that long because we already did so much, Robert smiled and told him he was right. Jax always likes to get stuff done quick, Robert always asks why he is in a rush, and he never really answers. Robert thinks it’s funny but thinks when he was nine, he would want to be done with chores as quickly as he could. Once they had a few piles of leaves spread around the yard they started raking together to get all the piles to the corner of the yard where they would be picked up by the city. The yard was taking a little longer than Robert planned for, but they finished a little after noon. Robert and Jax went to get Myla as soon as they got done. After they picked Myla up, they drove straight to the park to allow them more time to play. Robert asked Myla how she was and what she had been doing while she was out of school as they traveled to the park. As soon as they arrived at the park Jax and Myla got out of the vehicle and headed for the playground. Robert told them he would be walking the half-track so if they needed him to wave or something. Robert always gave Jax a thumbs up each time he passed to make sure he was good and if he was ready to go or not. Robert started his walking while the kids started playing. Each lap Robert checked on them and they were never ready to go. Robert kept walking but he was feeling fatigued today and his legs were bothering him more than usual. On Robert’s last lap when he was going to sit on the bench and wait, Myla and Jax said they were ready to go. Robert was glad to hear that. Robert asked both of them if they wanted to go get lunch somewhere, they both stated yeah. Robert said they could go anywhere they wanted they just had to agree on it since they were going to eat it wherever they decided. Jax and Myla looked at each other, made some faces not saying much and then both said McDonald’s. Robert figured that would be the choice from the few other times he has asked them both in the past and that’s the place they choose. Robert took them to McDonald’s and asked what they wanted to eat since he had to enter the order on a kiosk. Robert wondered why they had employees up front if they were not taking orders. Jax wanted a quarter pounder with cheese meal with a slushie to drink. Jax always eats his burgers with ketchup, mustard, and extra pickles so that’s how Robert ordered it. Myla said she also wanted a quarter pounder with cheese meal but she wanted Dr. Pepper to drink instead of a slushie so she could get refills. Robert knew she liked her burger boring but couldn’t remember exactly so he had to ask her. She said just a little bit of ketchup but nothing else. Robert ordered two McChicken sandwiches with lettuce and pickles. After they all finished eating Robert asked Myla if she wanted to ride with them to check on Navi, she said she did. They all went to check on Navi who had had an accident in the house which Robert had to clean since the kids were too busy laughing and spraying air spray. Once Navi was taken care of Robert drove Myla home. Robert still had to stop by Kroger to get groceries to make dinner. On the way from Myla’s house to Kroger Jax fell asleep and did not wake up until they were pulling into the parking lot. When they finally got home Jax played in his room while Robert started making chicken drumsticks for dinner with broccoli and cheese and brown rice. Jax had a soccer game at 1745 hours, so Robert was trying to rush to make sure he ate before going. Robert got it done in time and made him a plate which he ate besides the rice before going to his game.

### Cleaning out closests and thinking about what's next

Thursday, 10/5/2023, Robert and Jax got to his closet since they did not have enough time yesterday to do it. Robert took everything out of the closet and handed it to Jax and asked him to separate it into piles of how often he played with the toy. Once all the toys were out and the piles were made, they started putting everything back in the closest with the toys he plays with the least in the back and the toys he plays with the most up front. Jax did a good job helping and even gave up a few toys to the trash that were broken. Robert was proud of him for doing so well with this task. Robert wanted to put two shelves up in the closet to help with the organization but once it was cleaned and organized there was not really a need for shelves. Robert and Jax left to go take care of Navi and get onto the better part of the day that didn’t involve chores or tasks. Jax played at the park for about two hours while Robert walked and when they were done, they were both hot and sweating. Robert asked Jax if he wanted to get ice cream, he said he did. Robert was prepared better this time because as he asked Jax he pulled a dairy pill from his pocket which he forgot on Tuesday when they got ice cream. This time Jax got blue cotton candy again, but he got it with vanilla instead of watermelon which sounded like a better combination to Robert. Robert had butter pecan and cookie dough for his combination. After they ate the ice cream Robert thought he needed to go to the store, but he couldn’t remember what he needed so they didn’t go. Robert was making chicken quesadillas for dinner to use some of the soft flour shells they had along with the chicken. Robert wanted to try and use most of the leftovers before the weekend since they would be gone. They would be leaving Saturday, 10/7/2023, to go to Edisto before continuing to Charleston for Robert’s fourth treatment which was scheduled for Monday, 10/9/2023. Friday, 10/6/2023, Robert agreed to clean his parent’s house while they were out of town for the day. Robert told Jax if he helped him clean, he would pay him between five dollars and thirty dollars depending on how much help he was. Jax agreed and went with Robert to clean the house. As Robert started, he knew it was going to take way longer than he originally thought. Jax was wanting to help, and Robert was trying to think of something that he could do so Robert made him a bucket of water and had him wipe down all the doors and cabinets. As Robert dusted Jax did the doors. Robert still had to do the top section of the doors, but Jax provided a lot of help doing what he did. Jax wanted to sweep but Robert told him he would sweep only because he would only go back over what he would sweep. Robert told him he would do a good job, but he has a certain way to do it. Jax didn’t mind he played with the dog while Robert swept and mopped the house. After they got done, they went to check on Navi for the final time. On the way to check on Navi, Robert asked Jax how much he should get paid for what he did. Jax told Robert fifteen dollars, Robert thought that was a good estimate for what he did, but Robert said he did twenty dollars worth. Robert gave Jax a twenty-dollar bill and thanked him for his help. They went to the park for the fifth day in a row, so Jax could play and run around in the beautiful weather. That evening everyone packed their bags for the trip out of town. The next morning Saturday, 10/6/2023, Tonia and Robert decided to leave early so they could spend the day with Jax at the beach. They got to Edisto around noon and spent the entire day on the beach. They played, dug in the sand, made sand creatures, looked for shark teeth and shells. It was a wonderful day! That evening Tonia and Robert left around 1800 hours since they had an hour and a half drive to Bonneau. Sunday, 10/8/2023, Robert and Tonia went to visit an old co-worker of Robert that he has been wanting to catch up with since he had not seen them in almost two years. Robert was starting to think about his treatment on Sunday afternoon.

### Robert knows there is absolutely nothing he can do to prevent it

Robert knew this past week he had felt pretty decent, especially comparing it to any other week he has had since starting this journey but tomorrow would bring a week of dreed. There is absolutely nothing Robert can do to prevent it, but he can try to shift his thinking to more of a positive angle to try to help with what he is putting out into the universe. Robert shifted his focus to the great day he was having with Tonia. Robert wanted to live in the moment and not let tomorrow ruin what he has today. Robert had a great week and wanted to be happy for the week he was able to have, and the time spent with Jax which meant a lot to him. Robert wants consistency and routine which he knows will come as soon as he gets through two more treatments after tomorrows treatment. Every three weeks he gets to count it down and it is getting closer and closer to being done. Tomorrow will be treatment number four. Robert hopes it goes well but he is thankful, appreciative, and glad Tonia took off of work to be with him during his treatment and to drive him home.
