---
title: 'Trying to figure out life while going through Chemo'
description: 'After Robert received the first treatment he felt different as soon as he was done'
pubDate: 'Sep 19 2023'
heroImage: '/blog-placeholder-5.jpg'
---

### The Effects of the Chemo start

After Robert received the treatment on Thursday, August 3, 2023, he felt different as soon as he was done. Robert stood from his infusion chair to walk out and when he did his body felt weaker than usual and he was nauseated. Robert and his dad left the cancer center and walked across the street to the parking garage to head to his parent’s house. While in the car Robert remained nauseated with a tingling sensation in his arms and legs. The ride to his parent’s house took about 2 hours which seemed much longer to Robert because he was feeling bad but once he got home, he was happy to be back. It was already 1900 hours, so Robert was ready to lay down to try and get some rest. Robert’s girlfriend was not feeling well so they both decided it would be better if he stayed with his parent’s so he would not have to worry about the possibility of getting sick since his immune system was weakened from the treatment. Robert’s parents asked him if he wanted anything to eat which Robert said he did not. Robert was hungry but definitely did not feel like eating anything because of the nausea. As Robert laid in bed watching TV, he was thinking about how he would feel when he woke up and how bad his body would be affected by the chemotherapy. Having no control over the affects Robert knew he would just have to adjust to a new lifestyle during this time. He wasn’t happy about it, but he knew it would be needed to allow his body the opportunity to heal and stay rested. With his mind wondering Robert eventually fell asleep not knowing what tomorrow would bring.

Robert woke up in the middle of the night and rushed to the bathroom to throw up. He laid on the tile floor to cool off since he was feeling hot and clammy. Robert stayed on the bathroom floor for about 30 minutes before returning to bed to try and go back to sleep. Feeling horrible Robert was not able to fall back to sleep so he just laid there watching TV. A few hours passed and he heard his dad get up and walk to the living room. Robert decided to go ahead and get up, so he got dressed and went to brush his teeth. While Robert was brushing his teeth, he could taste a weird taste in his mouth, but he wasn’t sure what it was right away. When he rinsed his mouth, and the toothpaste flavor was gone Robert could tell what the taste was, and it was a metallic taste. Robert brushed his teeth again to try and get rid of the taste, but it didn’t work. Robert thought to himself this is great not only does he feel tired, fatigued, and nauseated but now he has this awful taste to deal with. Robert finished up in the bathroom and went to the living room to sit with his parents who were up watching Fox News as usual. As they all sat watching TV, Robert’s parents asked how he was feeling. Robert told them he was okay not wanting to complain or be a baby about anything. Robert did tell them he got up in the middle of the night sick to his stomach and about the recently noticed metallic taste in his mouth. Robert’s mom mentioned her dad who had leukemia also complained of a metallic taste. She also told Robert that the only thing he said tasted good was milk. Robert sent a text his girlfriend to tell her good morning as he always did when they were not together before 0700 hours so she would see it as soon as she woke up. Robert’s girlfriend sent a text back and called him to see how he was doing. Robert told her about his body hurting and feeling weak along with the metallic taste. Robert’s girlfriend was always looking up and reading articles about lymphoma to find out information that could help Robert feel better. Robert asked her how she was feeling, she said she was still coughing and had a runny nose. Robert could tell she was still under the weather by her voice but was hoping she felt at least a little better. Robert feeling so tired and fatigued he just lounged around the house trying to do as much as he could which wasn’t much at all.

## The first week

The whole first week after receiving his treatment Robert felt the same as far as his energy level went and his nausea. The metallic taste also remained and ruined most meals he tried to eat no matter what it was besides milk. Robert could actually taste milk when he drank it, it was not ruined by the metallic taste. Robert’s mom mentioned a mouthwash for the taste, but it was more for preventing mouth sores which Robert did not have an issue with. Robert sent a message to his care team about the metallic taste to make sure it was normal, and he was not experiencing anything out of the ordinary. He was advised by his doctor it is a normal side effect with the chemotherapy that some patients experience. Robert’s girlfriend went to the doctor at the beginning of the week to try and get something to get over her illness so Robert could return home. She ended up taking some antibiotics along with cold medicine but was still coughing and sniffling so she was starting to think it could be allergies. By this time Robert had been staying at his parent’s house for a week so finally on Friday. August 11, 2023, Robert and his girlfriend decided it would be fine for Robert to return home and they would just be cautious just in case it was not allergies. Robert’s girlfriend was extremely cautious like spraying everything she touched and keeping her distance from him. Robert’s girlfriend bought him ginger chews to help with his nausea which helped so when Robert felt nauseated, he would eat a ginger chew and the feeling subsided a little bit. She also got soft peppermint candies for him to suck on to try and get the constant metal taste out of his mouth. The peppermint candies worked as long as he was actively sucking on one but as soon as it was done the taste of metal returned. One evening while Robert and his girlfriend was watching TV, she told him about an article she read about someone eating lemonheads before they ate a meal to help them taste the meal they were eating. Robert thought that was a little weird, but he smiled and said it’s worth a try. The next day she got him two little boxes of lemonheads so he could try it out and see if it helped out with his ability to taste food. That evening they were eating tacos, Robert put a lemonhead in his mouth which he could taste then he took a bite of his taco, and he could actually taste the taco. This little trick with the lemonheads seemed to work. Robert also has some miracle berries that his girlfriend got him, and he ate one before eating a few nights later and the miracle berries also allowed him to taste the food he was eating. Robert read about the miracle berries because he had never heard of them before, and the berries activate the taste buds on the tongue which allows the receptors to taste the food. The metallic taste was getting taken care of with little tricks Robert’s girlfriend was able to find now if he could figure out something to help with the tiredness and fatigue.

The first week follow the treatment was horrible all the way around with difficulty doing anything from activities to eating to sleeping through the night. The second week was much of the same, but the nausea started to decrease, and the metallic taste was figured out. In the middle of the second week Robert started coughing. The cough was bad, and he did not have any symptoms of being sick besides a cough. The coughs were from deep and hurt his chest each time he coughed. Robert sent a message to his care team to let them know he started coughing and what he should do and what he could take. Robert did not take any medication that was not prescribed to him because he did not want anything to interfere with the chemotherapy drugs. The pain in Robert’s chest got worse and started to affect his breathing so on August 14, 2023, he decided to go to the emergency room after speaking with his doctor’s nurse. The emergency room visit did not provide a solution to the cough. The CT that was done just showed inflamed intercostals and a fractured left rib. The doctor from the emergency room just prescribed Robert some pain medicine and an antibiotic. By the third week Robert was starting to try and walk since his bones were hurting and he felt like he was not doing anything. Robert knew he needed to try and be active in some way but finding out how was difficult since he had no energy and pain in his bones along with his cough which caused trouble to breath at times. When Robert would go for his walks his legs and body would hurt less as he was walking but his energy level always seemed low. Robert kept on walking at least a little bit each day but his cough continued, and the medication prescribed from the emergency room did not help at all besides the pain medication. Robert knew the pain medicine was just masking the issue and if he could not feel the chest pain, he would just cough harder and harder but that could also cause damage so after 3 days Robert quit taking the pain medicine and would just deal with it until it was figured out.

### There is so much to take in

These three weeks following the first chemotherapy appointment were extremely difficult for Robert to manage. It was not just the pain, nausea, tiredness, fatigue, or metallic taste that affected him. Robert started feeling differently as far as his thinking, memory, emotions, and mood was. This was a lot to take in especially since he seemed to be having different physical and mental changes each day. The overall change was hard because Robert is not one to just sit around the house. If Robert’s at the house he is doing chores or working on something to help his time go by along with getting what needs to be done, done. Robert was always great with remembering anything and was always calm, cool, and collected but these three weeks he was not. Robert forgot simple things many times and he would get flustered at small things that really didn’t matter. Robert’s mood would change depending on what he was thinking about. With so much changing and going on he was constantly thinking about his current situation which would make him sad or mad depending on how he thought about it. Robert knew the change in his life was temporary and he is strong enough to get through anything. The weirdest part is Robert seemed to forget that fact throughout the day and it would cause his mood to change but as soon as he got clarity, he would say to himself it’s not forever and you only have 6 treatments before your done and one was out of the way already. For some reason the clear-headed thinking would never stay for long it was just moments of clarity as he was always processing what he could be doing or would be doing if he wasn’t sick. Being sick made Robert feel useless to everyone. Not only was he becoming an inconvenience and a burden, but he couldn’t work or finish school, so he literally was accomplishing nothing except interrupting other people’s lives that had to help him. This thinking was hard to keep out of Robert’s head since he was in a position that required so much assistance. Robert will have to learn to adjust to that as well as with the change in everything else the chemotherapy has affected in his day-to-day life.

As soon as Robert was feeling halfway decent it was the end of the third week and time to make another trip to Charleston, SC to have another treatment at MOSL. This second treatment was scheduled for Thursday, August 24, 2023, which was 21 days after the first treatment. Robert was upset to start the cycle all over again but glad it was the second one, so he was one closer to being done with this unknown chapter in his life. Robert thought he learned a lot after the first treatment and hopefully as he travels this journey, he will continue to learn about himself and stuff that will help him deal with the illness. As Robert learns tips and tricks or do’s and don’ts, he wants to share them to try and help others. This horrible situation could be better if he could help one person that might be struggling or needing some information that make their lives easier while going through the same type of thing or just a down time in life no matter the circumstances.
