---
title: 'Travel to Weekend Escape'
description: 'Robert made the decision to take his chances with his port to allow himself a weekend getaway '
pubDate: 'Sep 25 2023'
heroImage: '/blog-placeholder-5.jpg'
---

### ESCAPE!!!

Robert made the decision to take his chances with his port to allow himself a weekend getaway to Marco Island, Florida with his girlfriend. This trip was planned for months and was a celebration of his girlfriend’s company, it was a 30-year celebration to be exact, so it was important to Robert that his girlfriend got to go. Robert’s third treatment was initially scheduled for Thursday, September 14, 2023, but when he realized it was a day prior to them traveling he asked his doctor if the treatment could be pushed back a few days so he would not be within in that first week when he seemed to feel the worst. The doctor told Robert that September 14 was the 21-day window for the treatment, but she stated she could schedule it for Monday, September 18, but no later. Robert said that would be fine and he would not have an issue to receive his treatment on that following Monday. Once Robert was able to get the appointment rescheduled it seemed as if the upcoming weekend was going to be great besides the slight discomfort he felt from his port and the still agonizing pain on his right side. Robert wasn’t worried about the pain he felt because he knew he could just deal with it as he usually did, and he thought with such an exciting weekend he might be able to keep his mind occupied so he wouldn’t be just focusing on how he was feeling. Robert thought he had everything covered and him and his girlfriend would be ready to go. Robert’s girlfriend was also excited, but she was worried about Robert for several reasons. Robert’s girlfriend told Robert if they needed to cancel the trip to go to Charleston to get his port corrected that is what they would do. Robert told her that he was fine, and he has ruined enough stuff with his condition. His girlfriend told him he doesn’t ruin anything, and the most important thing is his health and that is what needs to be focused on. Robert thought to himself that she is always looking out for him and making sure everything possible is being done to protect him no matter how it affected her. This got Robert thinking deeply about what she meant to him, and he understood the reasoning, but he was not going to cancel this trip on a possibility of an infected port or some pain. After some discussion Robert and his girlfriend decided they would go on the trip. This decision made Robert happy because he knew his girlfriend was looking forward to it for months. That evening the two of them finished packing their suitcases and made sure everything was taken care of so they would be ready to go first thing in the morning to catch their 0700-hour flight.

That night while Robert was lying in bed, he was having trouble falling asleep. At first Robert couldn’t go to sleep because he was ready for the morning so they could get going but as the excitement faded from his mind starting to wander, he started thinking about why he was having so much trouble with an already troubling situation. Robert stared at the ceiling thinking about how much he has overcome up to this point in such a short time. Robert knows he is strong which he tries to show and be while dealing with the primary issue, the lymphoma but he thought as time goes on, he keeps having issues with something other than the actual cancer as if the cancer isn’t bad enough. The first segment brought on a cough he had to deal with along with everything else, the second segment had him still putting up with that pesky cough and now the port issue that could be serious. Either way Robert was discomforted by the port which caused him to wonder what could happen. Robert just wanted to use the little bit of energy he had each day to deal with the cancer so he could get through it without all these little problems that kept arising. All this thinking was unnecessary because Robert did not want to think about any of it. Robert wanted to just sleep and wake up to begin the weekend. Robert’s mind continued to race through all sorts of things since he had no control over it, but exhaustion finally won, and Robert drifted off to sleep.

### Time to go

Robert opened his eyes after sleeping for some time which felt like minutes to him, but he did not care because it was time to pack the car and head to the airport. Robert and his girlfriend got up and got ready. They both didn’t take long with this morning’s routine and once they were done, they proceeded to load their suitcases into the car. While both of them were walking through the house one last time to make sure nothing was forgotten, and all the doors were locked Robert grabbed his box of cinnamon muffins he purchased two days before. Robert put the muffins in his bookbag which he was carrying on so he would have something to snack on if he wanted. Robert drove to the airport in Augusta, Ga. Robert arrived at the airport and parked his girlfriend’s car in long term parking. Robert and his girlfriend walked into the airport to start the tedious process of checking bags and getting through security to wait on their flight time. It was 0600 hours the airport was not busy at all, so it did not take them long to check their bags plus they did most of it prior to arriving on the Delta app. After the bags were checked they walked to security that had one or two people in line and got through with about 45 minutes to spare before having to board the flight. Robert and his girlfriend sat near the boarding gate and looked over the weekend itinerary. The 45 minutes passed rather quickly, and it was time to board the flight. Rather than rushing to the counter to wait in line to board Robert and his girlfriend stayed seated until the line dissipated then they walked to the counter to scan their boarding pass to proceed down the ramp to get on a small plane for the quick flight to Atlanta. Robert took his window seat on the tiny plane that reminded him of a pack of chewing gum with wings. Robert is not a huge fan of flying thanks to one of his favorite shows, Air Disasters, but he doesn’t mind it until it’s time to land. Robert always thought that planes are smart and can fly themselves, but the problem comes when the pilot takes over to land. Robert was thinking he has enough currently processing through his mind at the moment and did not need to add possible plane crash to the equation. Robert and his girlfriend talked about random topics as the plane taxied to the runaway and took off. The flight had some turbulence, but it wasn’t too bad considering the size of the plane. Robert was feeling alright except for his right side which was starting to hurt more from being in a seated position for so long. Robert had a touch of nausea that got worse as the plane landed. Robert didn’t give his mind the opportunity to start thinking about anything because they just landed at Atlanta airport, and he was unsure how many concourses he had to rush through to get to the next gate. Robert’s girlfriend told him they landed at concourse C and the next flight was from concourse A. She also said they had 2 hours which was plenty of time. They both walked up the ramp and into the very busy airport. Robert’s girlfriend is a lot like him with wanting to get steps and be active so they both agreed to walk to whole way instead of taking the tram or any other mode of transportation the airport might have to offer. As they walked through the crowds of people Robert would always laugh at the random people that were running and make a comment to his girlfriend about how bad it would be to land and have 20 minutes to get through 2 or 3 concourses. Robert could tell his girlfriend was more worried with all the possible germs floating around from the thousands of people than the few that might miss their flight. Robert and his girlfriend arrived at concourse A and still had plenty of time before the next flight, so they decided to get something to eat. It was still early in the morning like 0845 hours, but it seemed like later because they had been up for so long already. Robert had a taste for lunch not breakfast, his girlfriend agreed and said she would also like something other than breakfast food. They walked the concourse and found a burger place serving normal food so they each ordered. Robert ordered a turkey burger, and his girlfriend ordered a cheeseburger with extra pickles. They also ordered a chocolate shake to share. After they finished eating it was almost time to board their flight to Ft. Myers, Fl. Robert and his girlfriend walked to A26 to wait to board the flight. While they were waiting in line there was a guy directly in front of them that kept coughing and sniffling. After about three coughs Robert’s girlfriend reached into her bag and handed him a mask. She also provided him with some hand sanitizer. Robert put the mask on and smiled as they cut eyes at one another to say they were both thinking the same thing. This plane was the cream of the crop a Boeing 757, so Robert was not concerned with this flight at all. Robert took his window seat once again and was glad to see TV screens in the seats for entertainment, but the flight was only a little more than an hour. Robert decided on Big Bang Theory to watch during the flight and his girlfriend picked a movie. The flight went well, and they landed safely at Ft. Myers airport. Robert’s girlfriend seen some people she works with that were on the same flight as they were walking towards baggage claim. She introduced Robert to the co-workers, and they said they would see each other later. Robert and his girlfriend were trying to get their luggage and get the Uber to get to the Marriott Resort on San Marco Island. The drive from Ft. Myers to San Marco Island was also a little over an hour. The Uber drove them to the resort which was absolutely beautiful located on the Gulf. Robert and his girlfriend were excited to be there and walked into the resort lobby to see what they needed to do. Robert’s girlfriend advised one of the hostesses her information and the company she was with. She was given directions to check in and where to register for the company events.

### The resort

Robert followed his girlfriend to the check-in counter where they received their room and information on the resort. The lady at the desk grabbed a map and highlighted their room as she handed it to Robert’s girlfriend. Robert’s girlfriend handed the map to Robert as they walked to the room which was 203. Robert’s girlfriend still needed to register for the company events, but she wanted to change clothes first. When they entered the room, they both said to each other that it was nice as they both set their bags down and walked towards the balcony. They both stepped outside onto the balcony that had a clear view to the Gulf of Mexico, two swimming pools, white sand, and rows of palm trees. Robert was extremely relaxed just being in such a calm, peaceful, beautiful atmosphere with his person who he loves so much. Robert changed clothes and waited for his girlfriend to get ready so they could get on with the day. The itinerary was busy with different events but also provided down time to whatever you wanted. Robert walked with his girlfriend to a meeting room that had her company name and logo on flags outside the door. On the way to the meeting room a lot more people had arrived to check in and Robert’s girlfriend was trying to speak to everyone and introduce Robert to the people she works with. After 10 to 15 people, she was finally able to break free and make it to the meeting room to register. Robert was issued a guest name tag and a wrist band to identify him as being with the company. His girlfriend received and employee name tag and a wrist band along with a company towel that had their logo and name on it. After registering there were drinks available in the meeting room so Robert and his girlfriend both got one while speaking to some more co-workers and introductions. Robert thought everyone seemed really nice and was glad he got to come with his girlfriend. During some of the introductions and conversations the employees would say if Robert’s girlfriend trained them or how they work together. Robert mostly listened unless it was a conversation that he felt comfortable about not wanting to embarrass his girlfriend or have her regretting him coming. Robert just took everything in and was so happy in the moment and it didn’t matter all the other not so great things he had going on. In the moment life was perfect in every way. Robert’s girlfriend was thanked for her hard work, extra time, and caring from one of the employees which she trained. Robert knows his girlfriend is amazing and it made him feel good for her when she received such positive feedback because she puts a lot of time and effort into her job, and she cares about it. The company employees kept funneling into the meeting room to register as Robert and his girlfriend were going to walk to the room to change and head to the beach before the first company event. The first event was a meet and greet cocktail hour on the beach followed by dinner. Robert was thinking he wanted time to stop while they were here, but he knew the time would probably fly so they needed to cherish every minute they could. They both had intentions to do exactly that. Robert and his girlfriend changed into their beachwear and was all smiles as they were fixing to official start the weekend.
