---
title: 'The week following the third treatment'
description: 'Robert and Tonia arrived back in Aiken'
pubDate: 'Oct 3 2023'
heroImage: '/blog-placeholder-4.jpg'
---

### The first night

Robert returned home and got to bed early to get some much-needed rest. Robert was feeling ill as he fell asleep so he knew that he would most likely be waking up at some point being sick. During the night Robert was up and down tossing and turning so at 0300 hours he decided to just get out of the bed so he would not wake Tonia since she had to be up at 0700 hours for work. Robert got up and went to the living room to sit on the couch and play on his phone. Robert didn’t turn the TV on because he always feels like it is so loud no matter what the volume is on. Robert did not want to wake up Tonia or her son. As Robert sat in the dark quiet living room playing on his phone he started salivating and felt nauseated. Robert went to the spare bathroom where he just sat on the floor to be close to the toilet in case he had to throw up. After sitting on the floor for about 15 minutes he started throwing up and was not feeling good at all. Robert stayed in the bathroom for a little over an hour until he realized it was almost 0620 hours. Robert got up from the bathroom floor to brush his teeth and go back to the living room since Tonia’s son would be waking up soon and he did not want Tonia’s son to see him being sick or anything. Tonia’s son got up at 0630 hours when his alarm went off and walked to the living room as he normally does to say good morning to Robert because Robert was always up by the time he got out of bed. Robert told him good morning and after a short conversation he went back to his room to get dressed and get ready for school. Robert ate a few ginger chews to try to ease his belly which seemed to work for a short period of time. At 0700 hours Robert walked to the bedroom to check if Tonia was awake since they had to leave the house by 0715 hours to walk her son to school. Tonia was up and getting ready, so Robert grabbed his medicine along with a Zofran. Robert went to the kitchen to take the medicine with some applesauce. Robert put his shoes on and waited for Tonia so they could leave. Robert and Tonia walked her son to school and then walked around the neighborhood to get some steps before Tonia had to be at work at 0800 hours. While walking Robert told Tonia he wasn’t feeling good and that he woke up feeling bad. Robert was feeling weak and exhausted after their short walk.

Once they returned home Tonia got ready and went to work. Robert tried to do his normal household task but he was not feeling it so he just did what he could and sat on the couch on and off most of the day trying to rest as much as possible. Robert is not one to just sit and watch TV all day, he always feels like he has to be doing something. Robert has always liked to stay busy but now he feels like he has to do something all the time especially since he isn’t working. Robert knows he could just rest and not worry about anything if he isn’t feeling good, but his mind tells him how useless he is which gets Robert thinking about it and the past three months since this whole thing started. Robert has an inner battle with himself about what is going on and loses so he proceeds to fall into negative thinking about everything. The thought starts with his current position in life which is not where he thought he would be at the age of 40. Robert has nothing and being at a standstill does not help matters at all. As Robert’s thoughts churn, he starts feeling sad. He knows he has great things in his life that he is thankful for such as Tonia, her son, his parents, good friends, and a loving family but for some reason those wonderful things do not allow Robert to get out of the thoughts that make him feel sad, mad, upset, and depressed about his current position. Robert thinks about the good things that he does have but his mind trumps those thoughts with the stuff he doesn’t have like good health, a job, house, and just the little things that most have at this time in life. This goes on everyday along with Robert’s physical troubles and his stomach issues that make him nauseated. As his mind is driving him crazy Robert keeps on trying to do stuff to keep him occupied and take some stress off of Tonia since she works all day. Each weekday is the same routine but the first week after Robert receives his treatment it is a bit more difficult than the other weeks since he is more nauseated, tired, and fatigued during this time than he is on the weeks that follow. Robert seems to never be at 100 percent, but he has good days when he is probably at 80 percent which is pretty good considering the circumstances. The first week after chemotherapy, like this week Robert is barely at 50 percent since he can’t do much of anything without feeling some type of way. The inability to do stuff like he wants also adds to the mind confusion he has and the negative thoughts that he can’t control.

### Ginger, Zofran, Metaquil, and Miracle Berries.

Robert proceeds through the first week waking up sick each morning which has him tired before the day even starts. Robert gets exhausted quickly with his bones hurting making him feel fatigued from doing much of nothing but he knows he has to do something so he tries to ignore the pain and take stuff that might help him feel better. Robert eats ginger chews and takes Zofran to help with the nausea feeling. He has Metaquil mouthwash to get rid of the constant metallic taste in his mouth. Robert also eats Miracle Berries before eating a meal to allow him to taste the food and also helps with the metal taste, sometimes he just eats lemonheads with the meal to get rid of the metallic taste depending on what he is eating. Robert will dry brush his arms and legs if he is having nerve pain causing his toes or fingers to be tingly. Each thing Robert tries is from trial and error during the first three months of this to try and make him feel better to get back to normal or as close to normal as possible. Robert’s pain from his fractured ribs he just deals with since he doesn’t want to take any pain medicine. Robert has figured out a lot of tricks to help with everything, but nothing has worked to help with his mind or thoughts. The mind and thoughts are aggravating but it doesn’t affect Robert being able to do and complete daily tasks, so he just lets it be and hopes it doesn’t make anything worse when it comes to his personal life. Robert thinks each day is like Groundhog Day since he seems to do the same exact thing every day to just stay busy and seem useful.

The mundane household stuff really isn’t much, but it needs to be done so Robert does it and hopes it will be seen as useful because if not he doesn’t have much more to offer at the time being. Every day the stuff gets done and every day Robert thinks about what he could be doing if he was able to be normal. The thoughts of being useless or irrelevant are constant even though Robert knows he is doing what he can and that he is the only one that thinks that way. Robert wants to get through the first week so he can get off the steroids and not be so negative on himself. Robert is also ready to get passed the first 7 days so he can feel like eating and not be nauseated all the time. Robert is glad he can get around and do a little bit of stuff during this week which isn’t the best, but it is better than nothing. Robert takes the small victories which is positive to try to make himself remember who he is and what he is capable of, and this part of his life is only temporary. Robert hopes the rest of the weeks get better before he goes for his fourth treatment and starts the cycle all over again. Robert seems like he is digging a hole as each week passes that he will never be able to recover from, but the crazy thing is he isn’t trying to. Being aggravating is something Robert is good at, but he usually knows and recognizes when he is being aggravating so he can stop when he sees it going too far. Robert just says and does all the wrong things at this point even when he is trying not to do anything. All he can do is apologize and continue to go through the weeks and hope everything works out once he is completed and back to his normal self. Robert will just keep going week by week to see how things end up. Week two should be better or at least that is what he is shooting for.
