---
title: 'Time for treatment number three'
description: 'Robert and Tonia arrived back in Aiken'
pubDate: 'Sep 28 2023'
heroImage: '/time-for-chemo.jpg'
---

### Quick turn around to leave again

Robert and Tonia arrived back in Aiken at 1530 hours. Robert had to pack a bag to travel to Charleston and drive to his parent’s house to pick up his dad so they could drive to Bonneau to make the early appointment tomorrow, September 18, 2023. Robert arrived at his parent’s house to get his dad and they drove to Bonneau. Robert and his dad got to Bonneau around 1930 hours. Once they arrived and unloaded the car, they watched TV. Robert had an appointment to have his port possibly removed so he needed to fast 12 hours before the appointment in case he required a procedure to take the port out. Robert was hungry and knew he was getting close to the cut off time he was allowed to eat so he decided to eat a bowl of cereal. Robert’s dad had leftover Chinese food he brought with him which looked really good, but Robert did not want to eat anything heavy. After Robert and his dad both finished eating, they watched TV for a little while longer before going to bed. Tonia called Robert at 2100 hours to say prayers when she was putting her son to bed. Robert always loves it when she includes him in the nightly routine even when he is not able to be there. Shortly after the phone call Robert and his dad shut everything off to head to bed. They needed to get up at 0500 hours to make it downtown by 0700 hours to get to Robert’s first appointment on time. Robert was going to have a busy day because he was scheduled for 5 different appointments. Robert went and laid down but as usual he could not fall asleep. Robert was thinking mostly about his port and whether they had to take it out if he would still be able to receive his treatment. Robert was also scheduled for a CT scan of his chest to see what was going on with his side causing the pain he has felt these entire three weeks since his last treatment. Robert wasn’t sure what was wrong but was just hoping it wasn’t anything serious because he did not want to deal with anything else. Robert was definitely having a hard enough time managing his current issues that have been affecting his life for the past three months. Robert fell asleep around 0030 hours after lying in bed for two and a half hours.

Robert woke up 4 hours later at 0430 hours. Robert laid in the bed and played on his phone until 0500 hours when he finally decided to get up to start getting ready. After brushing his teeth Robert looked in the living room and saw his dad sitting in his chair drinking a cup of coffee while watching Fox News. Robert said good morning and walked back into the bedroom to get dressed. Once Robert was all ready to go, he packed up his bookbag and set it by the front door so he wouldn’t forget it. Robert’s dad was also ready to go. Robert and his dad walked out the door at 0520 hours to make the aggravating drive downtown. Like always there was a bunch of traffic but like each other time it was planned for, so they were able to get downtown with a little time to spare. Robert parked his car in the same garage as always which is located directly across the street from the cancer center. Robert’s first appointment was at 0715 hours and for this time it was not at the cancer center. Robert had to go to Ashley Tower to have his CT scan. Robert and his dad walked the two blocks to Ashley Tower and went to the second floor, which was radiology to check in. Robert spoke with the lady at the desk and completed the form she gave him. After Robert was done with the form, he only waited a few minutes before being called. Robert stood up and walked towards the radiology tech that called his name. Robert followed her to the back and to the CT room where she asked Robert to sit and lay on the bed. Robert did as he was instructed, and she told him to follow the instructions that would be given by the machine. Robert laid waiting for the scan to begin and once it did the bed went in and out of the tube. Robert was told by the machine to hold his breath as the scan was taken. The radiology tech came in when the scan was completed and asked Robert to remove his necklace because it was in the scan. Robert removed his necklace and repeated the scan again. When he was done Robert was looking at the ceiling waiting for the tech to come in and tell him he was finished, while looking up Robert noticed an Xbox symbol in the ceiling above him. When the tech came in to get him, he asked her about the Xbox, she said it is connected to the machine and they were one of only three hospitals in the country to have the Microsoft program that integrated with the CT scan through an Xbox. Robert thought that was cool as he stood up and followed the tech back to the waiting room where is dad was sitting. Robert told his dad he was done so they could proceed to the second appointment which was at a different building to have his port looked at. Robert and his dad walked to the main building and went to the 3rd floor where the vascular procedures were done. Robert checked in with the lady at the desk and sat in the waiting area to be called. Robert and his dad talked for a couple minutes while waiting, then Robert was called by a nurse. The nurse asked Robert to follow her and confirmed his information as they were walking to the back. The nurse put Robert in an exam room and gave him a gown to put on. Robert changed into the gown and lay on the bed. A second nurse came into the room and asked Robert how he was doing, Robert told her he could be better, but he was here, so he was hoping it didn’t get worse. The nurse said she hoped so too as she started to hook Robert up to a few machines to take his vitals. The nurse stated she was going to have to put in an IV as she looked at Robert’s arms to check for his veins. She said he had good veins so it would be easy. The nurse decided on Robert’s left arm, she cleaned the area and then said small poke as they always do and pushed the IV needle in. The nurse asked Robert if he needed anything, and he said he did not. Once Robert was all hooked up to everything with the IV the nurse handed him the remote to the TV and asked him if he needed her to press the call button. She said the doctor would be in shortly. As the nurse turned to leave, she asked Robert if he was here with anyone, he said he was here with his dad. The nurse asked if he wanted her to go get him so he could sit back here with him. Robert told her that would be great. The nurse left to go get Robert’s father. While she was gone a doctor came in to look at the port. The doctor who was a resident looked at it and said he was going to clean it to see where the blood was coming from that was causing it to scab. The resident cleaned the port area and observed a deep hole that allowed him to look in and see the metal edge of the port. The resident advised Robert of what he saw and asked a few questions to see if Robert had been having fevers or anything that would lead him to believe it could be infected. After the resident was done looking at the port and speaking to Robert, he said he was going to take the information to his team to decide on how they wanted to proceed. Shortly after the resident walked out Robert’s dad opened the curtain and sat in the chair next to the bed. Robert told his dad what the resident did, and he would return after conversing with the other doctors. Robert’s dad stood up and leaned over Robert to look at the hole. A few moments later another doctor walked in and said he wanted to see what was going on with the port. This doctor said he was a fellow and wanted to see if the port showed any signs of infection. The fellow looked at the port and the area around it. He stated the port appeared infected, but he said the healing could have been prevented from blood under the port. The fellow told Robert the bruising to the right of his chest was from blood under the port and the blood has kept constant pressure on the port which did not allow the skin to close. The fellow stated they do not like taking ports out once they are in if they don’t have to because it usually causes more issues, and the chemotherapy is important, so he was going to discuss the options with the doctors to see what they wanted to do. The fellow asked Robert if it was okay if he took a photograph of the port to add to his file, Robert said he did not care. After the photo was taken, the fellow left the room just like the resident did not provide any clear answers of the problem or a solution. When he left Robert’s dad stood back up and took a photo of the port as well. Then he showed Robert what the hole looked like that they were talking about. Robert put it on Fox News so his dad could at least listen to it even though he wasn’t watching it. About 15 minutes later the fellow returned and said he was going to try and close the hole with a stich or skin glue. Robert said the port is staying in, he said yes. Robert was happy about that because he did not want to have a procedure done to remove it. As the fellow was cleaning the port area another doctor walked in who was the attendee. The ultimate decision was to bandage the port after applying antibiotic ointment and prescribing an antibiotic. The fellow bandaged the port and told Robert not to get the site wet or remove the bandage before returning so they could check the port to see if it was healing any better. Once the fellow was done, he dated and initialed the bandage so the nurse at the infusion center would know not to remove it and the port could be accessed below the bandage. With the great news of getting to keep the port in place Robert and his dad walked out of the main building to go to the third appointment which was at the cancer center. Robert was glad the first two appointments were done and now he could continue the day with the appointments he was used to because it was the same each time he came for treatment. They walked into the cancer center and went to the 2nd floor where the infusion center was to get started. Robert checked in at the desk and was told to have a seat and wait to be called to have his labs done. Robert waited a while and did not hear his name called, which was unusual because it was normally pretty quick. Robert noticed a sign on the lab door that said if the labs are taken from a port, then they are taken in a different area. Robert walked to the back where the sign said to go, and he was called as soon as he got to the right waiting area. Robert followed the nurse into the lab where he sat in the chair and lifted his shirt to allow the nurse to access his port. The nurse noticed the bandage and Robert explained his previous appointment. The nurse asked if he has ever had any problems with the port during labs or treatment, he stated no. The nurse reached back behind her to get the needle and stuck it into the bottom portion of Robert’s port. Robert felt the stick which was painful because he did not have a chance to apply the lidocaine cream before like he did for the previous treatment appointment. The nurse filled all the tubes she needed and then flushed the port. The access tube was taped to Robert’s chest, and he was done so he could go to his fourth appointment to speak with the oncology doctor to get cleared for treatment. Robert walked out and told his dad they needed to go to the other waiting area to be seen by the doctor. Robert and his dad went to the area and took a seat to wait. Robert was called to have his vitals taken and then he returned to his seat next to his dad. This was usually the longest waiting period of them all. Robert and his dad were eventually called by the tech that took Robert’s vitals to walk them back to the exam room. Robert’s normal doctor was out today so he was seeing a different doctor from another team. The nurse walked into the exam room and asked Robert how he was doing and asked how his trip to Florida was. Robert told her it was great, and he was okay. The nurse talked for a few minutes and then left saying the doctor would be right in. The doctor came in and introduced herself while cleaning her hands with sanitizer. As she was wiping her hands together, she splashed Robert’s dad with the sanitizer from her hands which was funny because she said she usually doesn’t introduce herself and throw sanitizer at people. The doctor took a seat on her stool and started asking Robert questions about his cough and pain on his right side. She stated she thinks the cough is being caused by the chemotherapy drugs. She said she has seen drug induced pneumonitis a few times, but it isn’t that common. The doctor explained that the CT scan showed stuff on Robert’s lungs that looked like glass shards which is how it has appeared in the past. She said she was not sure but wanted to refer him to a pulmonary specialist to confirm. The doctor also told Robert his pain on the right side was from four fractured ribs. She told Robert his 6th, 7th, 8th, and 9th ribs on the right side were fractured. She said there is not much that can be done to help heal or prevent the pain, but she would prescribe him some pain medication to help him deal with it. The doctor told Robert she was clearing him for treatment and asked if he had any questions. Robert advised her he did not. Robert was now ready to go to the infusion center to receive his treatment. Robert and his dad walked through the waiting areas and into the infusion center where Robert checked in and advised he was clear for treatment.

### Infusion Chair 24

Robert’s name was called by a nurse who said she would walk him to his infusion chair. Robert and his dad followed her to infusion chair 24. Robert took a seat and turned on the chair warmer. Robert was running a little behind since he had so many appointments today which he was upset about because he was trying to get back to Aiken before 1800 hours to attend Tonia’s son’s soccer game. It was already 1330 hours so Robert knew that he probably wouldn’t make it since he hadn’t started his treatment yet and they still had to go back to Bonneau to get his dad’s bags since he didn’t bring them with him. The nurse brought Robert his medication which was taken prior to receiving the treatment. Robert took the Benadryl, Tylenol, and Zofran. The nurse was walking back and forth between Robert and two other patients as she was setting up each infusion chair. Robert knew his dad wanted to cut the grass and take care of stuff at the house in Bonneau that he hadn’t had a chance to do. The weather was also looking like it might rain at some point but wasn’t currently raining. As Robert was waiting to get the treatment started, he asked his dad if he wanted to go get something to eat since it was past lunch time and take care of whatever he needed to he could go. Robert told him he would be fine plus it’s extremely boring to have to just sit here. Robert’s dad asked if he was sure, Robert said yeah go ahead. Robert said he would go to if he wasn’t required to sit in the chair to receive the treatment. Robert’s dad eventually said okay he would go to the house and come back when he was done with the yard. Robert asked him to grab his bags so they could just leave from here and not have to drive all the way back to Bonneau when he was done. Robert’s dad said alright and told Robert if he needed anything to call or text him. Robert said he would be fine. Robert’s dad got up and left. Robert reclined a bit to relax and close his eyes since he was tired and dreading the aftermath of the chemotherapy. The nurse came back to Robert’s room and asked what side he wanted the shot of Rituximab on, Robert told her the right side. The nurse administered the shot in the right side of Robert’s belly. The next drug would be Cyclophosphamide that is hung and dispensed through the IV. Each time the treatment goes the same way and in the same order. Robert sat watching TV and dozing on and off. The Cyclophosphamide was followed by Doxorubicin Hydrochloride that is given through two huge syringes into the IV that is pushed by the nurse. This time Robert didn’t talk much like he usually does because he was in his head and feeling tired. Robert was not in the mood for small talk or any talking really. The nurse sat next to him in her gown and pushed the drug and when it was completed Robert started feeling nauseated. Robert told the nurse he was feeling sick plus he was hungry since he had to fast the night before. The nurse said she would go get him some crackers. The nurse returned with two packs of saltine crackers which Robert ate in hopes he would feel better. The nurse hung the final drug bag on the IV pole which was Oncovin. After the nurse started the drip Robert sent his dad a text telling him he was almost done. Robert checked his phone to see what time it was, and it was 1630 hours. Robert knew he wouldn’t make the soccer game, which sucked but there was nothing he could do. Robert’s dad sent a text back saying he was on the way back. Robert completed the treatment and was reminded by the nurse to take his steroids for five days following the treatment. Robert told her that he remembered. Robert got up from the infusion chair still feeling nauseated and kind of weak as he walked out of the infusion center and down to the pharmacy so he could pick up the pain medication that the doctor prescribed him. Robert got the medicine and went outside the building to sit and wait for his dad to return.

### Robert knew he just had to deal with it

Robert sent his dad another text letting him know he was done and waiting outside. Robert waited for 30 minutes, and his dad still did not show up. Robert sent another text asking where he was, his dad said he made a wrong turn and had to go around the block to get back to the building. Robert was getting aggravated because he didn’t feel good, and he was ready to get back to Aiken. Robert wasn’t surprised that his dad made a wrong turn because he isn’t the best with directions and gets lost most of the time. Robert thinks it is because his dad is paying attention to everything except the road while he is driving. It is usually funny but not when it is him waiting. Robert’s dad finally showed up and Robert asked what took so long and his dad explained what happened which made no sense, but Robert really didn’t care at the moment he was just glad they were finally on the way home. Robert was still aggravated at his dad driving so he told him that he would drive. Robert didn’t feel good and didn’t want to drive but he couldn’t deal with his dad’s driving anymore. Robert drove for a little bit until he calmed down or was less aggravated and told his dad he would stop at the next exit so he could drive. Robert’s dad said okay and he was happy to not be fired from driving. They both smiled at the comment and continued on the two-hour drive home. Robert’s dad asked him to text mom to see if she wanted anything to eat from QT. Robert sent the message and she replied with a request. Robert’s dad stopped at QT and got all kinds of food. Robert did not want anything to eat he was doing good enough having to smell it for the next hour. Robert and his dad got back to Aiken. His dad asked if he wanted him to drive to the soccer field to try and catch the end of the game. Robert told him it was fine, and it was probably over since it was 1930 hours. Robert sent Tonia a text asking who won. Tonia responded that the game was tied but they were still playing. Robert thought the game started at 1745 hours and was wondering why they were still playing. Tonia told him it started at 1845 hours. Robert asked her to let him know what the score was when they were finished. Robert and his dad arrived at the house. Robert’s dad carried all the food along with the bags before Robert could walk back outside to help him. Robert told his mom about the doctor’s visit and what was said about his cough and pain. Robert stayed for 20 minutes before leaving to head home. Robert’s parents asked him if he needed anything to let them know. Robert said he would be fine and thanked his dad for going with him as he left. Robert drove home and was really glad when he got there to see Tonia and her son. Robert explained all the appointments to Tonia and let her know what the doctor said. Robert wanted to take a shower, but he knew he couldn’t get the bandage wet, so he just stood in the tub and splashed a bit to get clean. Robert was ready to lie down but was not ready for the week ahead of feeling so poor. Robert knew there was no way to prevent it, so he just had to deal with it. Robert was glad he was done with treatment three so if all goes well, he is basically halfway to closing this horrible chapter.
