---
title: 'Getting Back in the Swing of Things'
description: 'Robert felt really good since he was starting at the end of a treatment cycle.'
pubDate: 'Nov 12, 2023'
heroImage: '/back-to-it.jpeg'
---

The week following Robert’s fifth treatment he continued to go to clinicals and get the required cases and time needed to pass his externship I. Robert started back on Monday, October 23, 2023, which was a week before his fifth treatment, so he felt really good since he was starting at the end of a treatment cycle. Robert knew the week after receiving his chemotherapy would be hard because he is well aware of how he would be feeling at this point, but he also knew how important it was to continue the course and do what he needed to do to complete the externship. Robert thought if he could keep his mind in check by filling his thoughts and thinking with educational stuff that he needed to learn it would help shift the focus from the craziness and cloudiness he had been suffering from the past few months. Robert will do everything in his power to do what he can to be a good student at clinicals, a good man at home to still help as much as he can around the house with whatever needs to be done and keep being there for Tonia and Jaxson. Robert knows it won’t be easy, but it will definitely be worth it in the end as he starts to heal his mental health and return to the man, he knows he is. Knowing what is important from what he has learned through this entire situation will help him keep on track and get back into the swing of life as he knew it before June of this year.

Robert’s externship was planned for Doctor’s Hospital in Augusta, Georgia. Robert briefly started the externship prior to receiving his diagnosis but he was unable to continue in the beginning because the chemotherapy and pain was preventing him from being able to learn as he needed and work a full day because he would have to be on his feet. Robert’s fatigue was too much to have him attempt it until he was able to rebuild his endurance and feel comfortable in the setting of an operating room where he would need to be at his best both physically and mentally for his sake and the sake of the employees he would be working along side and the patients. Once the decision was made to go back in October Robert felt good about it but had some brief doubt knowing he still had two treatments to go and one of those treatments was scheduled for seven days from the start. Robert was very appreciative of Doctor’s Hospital for allowing him to come back after he started and had to leave. Robert wants to do all he can to show himself and the hospital, they made a good decision in allowing him to return. It was important to Robert to do his clinicals in the Aiken/Augusta area because it would allow him to be with Tonia and Jaxson during the week and he could keep building a loving, caring, and meaningful relationship with them both.

Robert’s first day at the hospital he was put in supply to get to know the location of all the items and materials used in the operating rooms and also how each case is prepared for when surgery was scheduled. The second part of the first day was spent in sterile processing so he could see how the instruments are deconned and cleaned after being used for a surgical procedure. These two departments play a critical role in the overall operation of the operating room and the information and knowledge gained was good and would assist Robert as he gets deeper into his job function. The next few days Robert started scrubbing into cases to observe and act as a second scrub to see how the operating room functioned during certain specialties. Towards the end of the week Robert was getting the hang of things and started scrubbing in as first scrub to take control of the case as the primary surgical tech with the preceptor standing back letting him work and get in his own method of setting up and assisting the surgeons. Robert did a total of 13 surgical cases in his first week and was enjoying the routine of getting up and having something to do each day that had him working and helping people. The second week would be more intense and require Robert to just check the surgical board to see what room he was in and who he would be with so he could just get in and get started.

Week 2, which started Monday, October 30, 2023, had Robert’s name on the board and he knew what he needed to do each day, so he was able to start forming a routine of sorts. Robert scrubbed four cases on that Monday. The cases were: 1- TURBT (transurethral resection of a bladder tumor) with a repeat TURP (transurethral resection of a prostate), 2- TURBT (transurethral resection of a bladder tumor) 3- TURBT (transurethral resection of a bladder tumor) with retrograde pyelogram, and 4- ureteroscopy. cysto, laser lithotripsy with stent exchange. The cases went well, and Robert was learning a lot and finally starting to understand the classroom portion of the program since he was seeing everything. Robert knew what the book was talking about, but it was difficult to know each step in the process without seeing it first-hand. Tuesday, October 31, 2023, Robert again scrubbed four cases. Robert was hoping to get finished on time since it was Halloween and he had plans to go trick or treating with family that was meeting at the house around 1730 hours. The four cases Robert scrubbed Tuesday were: 1- ureteral stent exchange with ureteroscopy, 2- transrectal prostate biopsy, 3- left ureteroscopy with ureteral stent, and 4- TURBT (transurethral resection of a bladder tumor) with cysto and bilateral pyelogram. Robert did not go to clinic on Wednesday, November 1, 2023, or Thursday, November 2, 2023, because he was in Charleston to have his PET scan and receive his treatment. Robert returned to Aiken Thursday evening so he could attempt to go to clinic on Friday, November 3, 2023. Robert woke up Friday not feeling good at all, but he knew he needed the hours since he missed two days, so he went to the hospital to try and work. Robert checked in with the charge nurse and she said she was not expecting him today, but she put him in a case. Robert scrubbed a laparoscopic partial gastrectomy and a laparoscopic hiatal hernia. Robert started feeling worse as the day went on and after the surgery was completed, he told the charge nurse he wasn’t feeling good at all. The charge nurse told Robert he could go home, and she hopes he gets feeling better. Robert told her thank you and he would see her on Monday, November 6, 2023. Robert returned home and just tried to rest during the weekend so he would be alright to go back on Monday.

Robert went to the hospital Monday morning as he planned and was not feeling great but definitely better than he did on Friday. Robert checked the board to see where he would be to start his third week of his externship I. Robert scrubbed three cases Monday, November 6, 2023. The three cases were: 1- ureteroscopy, cysto, possible ablation, stricture dilation, 2- bilateral ureteroscopy with laser lithotripsy, ureteral stent exchange, 3- right ureteroscopy with laser lithotripsy, ureteral stent placement. Tuesday, November 7, 2023, Robert was put in orthopedics for the first time which he was dreading at first because it always seemed like a lot going on when he talked to people about it, but he was willing to try and have an open mind to learn all he could. Robert scrubbed three cases on Tuesday. The cases were: 1- right ankle gastrocnemius recession, 2- left foot metatarsophalangeal joint capsulotomy with tendon repair, and 3- removal of hardware right foot with bone graft right foot. Wednesday, November 8, 2023, Robert scrubbed two cases. The cases were: 1- bilateral ovarian cystectomies, D&C (dilation and curette), hysteroscopy with possible laparotomy, 2- laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Robert had his longest case thus far with the first case of the day, the entire procedure took just under six hours. Robert was glad that the day was over, and that the next day was Thursday because he was feeling a bit tired. Robert wasn’t tired from feeling bad but more from getting to bed late and 0400 hours comes early. Thursday, November 9, 2023, Robert started off in a robotic incisional hernia repair with mesh. After that procedure there were four more of the same surgeries scheduled so he was moved to a diagnostic room since he had not seen any diagnostic procedures yet. Robert second scrubbed four cases in diagnostics, he second scrubbed because the procedures were not sterile and did not require a sterile field. The four diagnostic cases were: 1- ion bronchoscopy of right upper lobe with navigation, 2- ion bronchoscopy of right upper lobe with navigation and EBUS, 3- ion bronchoscopy of right lower lobe with navigation, and 4- ion bronchoscopy of left upper lobe. The diagnostic procedures were a bit boring and did not require much so the day seemed to creep by, but Robert was glad at 1530 hours when it was finally time to go. Robert looked over his paperwork to make sure he got everything done that he was supposed to and checked over his case log which he was happy with since he had the opportunity to scrub some good cases. Robert learned a lot in the first three weeks of his externship.

Robert was also glad he was past his first week after treatment which was not to horrible besides the day after the treatment. Robert got sick a few times, but nothing compared to previous weeks and his mind seems to be better with staying busy. Robert knows he is getting closer and closer to being finished with his chemotherapy treatments which he is so excited about. Robert is fine with having lymphoma and knowing it will never be cured but it can be in remission, which he is hoping happens after his last treatment. The toll the treatments take on his body and mind he will be super happy to see in the rearview as he turns the page of life to start a new chapter. It is getting better and Robert can feel and see the difference in his life so he is understanding of the situation he has gone through and will eventually find the reason behind it if there is one but until it comes out Robert will continue to do what he can and control what he can to keep shifting his life back on track to get and maintain in the swing of life.
